I have a time sensitive matter to discuss re Guantanamo detainees and Bermuda.U.S. Department of State
Case No. F-2015-04841
Doc No. C05739817
Date: 05/13/2015
STATE DEPT. - PRODUCED TO HOUSE SELECT BENGHAZI COMM.
SUBJECT TO AGREEMENT ON SENSITIVE INFORMATION & REDACTIONS. NO FOIA WAIVER.
RELEASE IN
PART B5,B6Three reactions: You are a miracle worker. We're a good team. And, we will surely miss Rob Nabors. Any chance he'd
come work w us?Do you recall Nooni Ali(?), the ten year. old Yemeni girl who got herself divorced? I met her at the Glamour awards last
year. There was a CNN story last few days about how unhappy she is, still living at home, not attending school and quite
angry that her life is not better. Is there any way we can help her? Could we get her to the US for counselling and
education?Sorry I hit send too soon!Will we receive them this Fall? How can I buy some for personal use?Thx for the feedback and for everything you did to make it happen.Pls tell Jake to vet w others so I can raise.'abedinh@state.gov'; B6
Yes--but I don't want to lose the Sri Lankan call for today since it's taken awhile to set up and is very important. So that's
the key.Dear Nancy--
I very much want to meet and we've been trying to pin my schedule down enough to offer a date. The only times I see
for me before December are Nov 21-23 or sometime in the second or third weeks of December. I'm copying Cheryl so
you two can try to find a time that works.
As to the names, I think they're all worth inviting w the hope they can come. Let's do it! Best, HOkPls be sure I do letter to his wife and my friend, Ronnie and add her to call list.Tomorrow when you distribute the materials, pls keep a list of where stuff went. I'm particularly concerned that Cheryl
get all the papers I marked for her. Everything not marked should either be filed or passed back to the line. If you have
any questions, pls let me knowCall me tonight.Tom--
Thanks to you, Craig and Dan for making this happen. I am very proud of our team and your leadership, and I'd like to
personally thank you all when I'm back. I'm copying Lona so she can start to schedule a time for that.
I'm anxious to hear the details. Maybe now we'll get you confirmed or, at least, canonized! Pls thank one and all,
especially Craig, for a tour de force. HRCOk w me.Judith—in btw our mtgs, I'll email you questions or suggestions mostly so I don't forget them!
Have you met w Doug Hattaway? I think he's very good.
A former Amb has a media project that I need to discuss w you.
I loved seeing all of your "boys"!
1Did you and/or PIR talk to him today? Do I need to see him tomorrow?Am I scheduled to talk w him? If not, could you get a call/visit scheduled?I know but can't get the STEA to work--didnt work this am for secure fax either so trying the white phone now.I want to take the 3 pm shuttle and I want to meet w Jake and the Holbrooke team either at State or my house
whichever they prefer.What should we do about this?I reached Katie but Shelly's voice mail wasn't set up. Can you track her down and tell her I tried. Thx.Is the 50k figure State and AID?
Kurdistan election results?
Can you find out for me how many Nazi prison camps we had in US during WW2 and what we did w the detainees--did
we ever try any? Did we deport them after war ended?
Re Sudan: how do you pronounce Abyei?
What is % and dollar increase in 2010 budget for ops and aid?
I don't understand the answer to the prostitution policy question. What's the simplest way to say it?Thx. What did Mark Hyman tell you?Not today. And maybe on car ride tomorrow.I can do it right now.
---When he comes in January let's have him for lunch w a small group including Mark Landler.Can you call me?Am I talking w him at 7:30?
1What is FM's first name?Ok.I just landed in Ny. Can I call you?RELEASE IN PART
B6
Pls print.The idea of a statement as requested below is a good one.I just heard an npr report about the CIA station chief in Tripoli sending a cable on 9/12 saying there was no demo etc. Do
you know about this?
U.S. Department of State
Case No. F-2015-04841
Doc No. C05739763
Date: 05/13/2015
STATE DEPT. - PRODUCED TO HOUSE SELECT BENGHAZI COMM.
SUBJECT TO AGREEMENT ON SENSITIVE INFORMATION & REDACTIONS. NO FOIA WAIVER. STATE-5CB0045746Esther--Can you tell me if China has signed this treaty?So what's the verdict on the article?Thx! I left him a message.Also, can you recommend a casual place that's not noisy that I could have a quick dinner w DiFi tomorrow night near my
house?I spoke w French FM KouchnerH <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Saturday, October 17, 2009 9:30 AM
Re: Would love to talk today
Tom--I will call you after 2 today. Thx.Mike--What's the plan for working w EPA? This may come up in mtgs about climate change this week. HRCI'm forwarding to Rob and Huma to see if we can get letters done this am--typed is fine.FyiVu All Over Again)"
Pls print.H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Sunday, September 20, 2009 10:19 PM
'Imuscatine
Re: CGI Speech First Draft
I'm in NY. Thx.PIs make 3 copies.I want to see and thank the entire SRAP team on Friday on the 8th floor.H <hrod17@clintonemail.com >
Monday, January 18, 2010 10:05 AM
'oterom2@state.gov'; 'slaughtera@state.gov'; 'cheryl.mills
'FuchsMH@state.gov'; 'MauldinCP@state.gov'; 'SchonanderCE@state.gov';
'JonesK@state.gov'; 'ValmoroU@state.gov'
Re: Water
Lona--pls pull together a meeting after Maria gets back on Feb 2 for us to review where we are. Thx.Pis print.Thx. And finally.Can we do early tomorrow morning?020610.docx
Fyi. Can you determine when Shaun wants to talk?Pls print.
H < hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Monday, February 1, 2010 8:49 AM
'Ji I otyLC@state.g ov'
Re: FYI... David Crane... Fw: Catch upOk.Ok.Is there any time on Mon that I could see Jim Jones? Also can you send me tomorrow's schedule?Am I supposed to see him and others or not when I get back?Could you talk now?Where is Bill? Can I call his cell or Doug's?Pis print.
-•-...-^
H < hrod17@clintonernailcom>
Wednesday, September 12, 2012 2:11 PM
°Russorv@state.gov'
Fw: Meet The Right-Wing Extremist Behind Anti-fvluslim Film That Sparked Deadly Riots
From [meat)
Sent: Wednesday, September 12, 2012 01:00 PM
To: 11
Subject: Meet The Right Wing Extremist Behind Anti-Muslim Film That Sparked Deadly Riots
htte/maxbiumenthal.com12012/09/meet-the-right-wing-extremist-behind-anti-musiim-tihn-that-sparked-
deadly-riots/
Sent from my Verizon Wireless 4G LTE DROID
U.S. Department of State
Case No. F-2015-04841
Doc No. C05739559
Date: 05/13/2015
STATE DEPT. - PRODUCED TO HOUSE SELECT BENGHAZI COMM.
SUBJECT TO AGREEMENT ON SENSITIVE INFORMATION & REDACTIONS. NO FOIA WAIVER. STATE-5CB0045251What are emails for Kurt Campbell and Tom Donilon?Yes--but, first, be sure both Ds can come at that time.PIs put the following on the list:
Walter Pincus (move him up from 12/9/08) Derek Harvey (move him up) Mona Ackerman (move from 9/24/08)
And take off the following:
Belgian FM
Height
Turkish FM
Lowey
Cannon
Rosen
Goldberg
McLarty (the 1/4 entry
Frist
Foxman
Stern
Rhodeen
Osteen
Straley
Jacobs
MageeJim jones just called to ask me if I can I meet at the WH from 11:30 to 12:30 on Monday? What needs to be moved?I'm back on the ground, on the way to the house.So, what was the reaction?H <hrod17@clintonemail.com >
Monday, November 30, 2009 3:15 PM
'JilotyLC@state.gov'
Fw:Condi Rice called to tell me I was on strong ground saying what I did about there being no agreement btw the Bush
Admin and Israel. I will give you details tomorrow.When will we hear from Paul Farmer???No I have that--just wanted to be sure it was final.
What happened w yesterday? Do they know I stopped by? B6Call if there is info to report. Thx.H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Sunday, August 16, 2009 1:01 PM
Tomorrow
RELEASE IN PART
B6
I will have time at State tomorrow at either 2:15 or 5:45. Does either work?Influence Poll_Long Version.pdf
Pls print.I would love to see you and Randi. I'm copying Lona to see how soon we can schedule. Hope you're well.I need to discuss Pakistan agenda--pls call me thru Ops.H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Saturday, October 17, 2009 1:17 PM
mitchellg@state.gov'
'RudmanM@state.gov'; 'sullivanjj@state.gov'
Side letters
Dear George--
I have reviewed the drafts of the side letters and am ready to discuss at your convenience. You can reach me thru
•
State Ops anytime before 7pm today or tomorrow morning before noon. Thx. HRCThx. Also, I tried Doug twice but it went right to voice mail.Ok. Hope you got some sleep!Ok w me.Do you know anything about this?Mark--thanks for the offer of help. I'd appreciate anything you can to do assist w the completion of the American
Pavilion. I am copying Kris Balderston, who is working on the Expo project for me, and asking him to contact you to
follow up. All the best.Pls have Margaret contact her to guage interest. She would have to give up a lot.
If interested, she should come in.I can talk tonight or tomorrow am. What works for you?Pis print.Thx.[mailto
RELEASE IN PART
B6OkCheck w Holbrooke-I agree this needs to be addressed. Just let me know how you decide to do so. Thx.Ok.P.J.---Thanks for the headsup about question. I was not saying anything new and believe I have said this before
and am copying both Philippe and Jake so all three of you can help me remember when, where and whether. Also, I
believe the POTUS has also said this. Let's discuss tomorrow.Is the UAE FM is meeting w Bill Burns before my lunch w him? If so when and where?
What happened to the idea of my going by dinner at WH? Any other way I could see the CEOs who will be here?That is very welcome news. Let's hope it actually holds til Monday. Thx for helping keep me informed along the way.; Huma Abedin B6
Mark, emergency room doc, is w Paul Farmer; Pier is his orthopedic surgeon wife. Is there any way to help asap? This
should be the highest priority. Coulc one of the medical teams alreay there move over to help? Could Gen Keen or UN
get the supplies and generators they need to them at first light?I have Gates speech but not EU.
Also I think I need to go back earlier Tuesday. Maybe the 9 or 10 shuttle if possible.
Can you call me when possible?OkThx for
ALL your help.I'm finding this latest memo draft confusing in the way it is laid out. Pls call me.That's what I thought too. Can you get that done?Also I should mention the G-20.Do you have my call list? I'm looking for Joe Duffy/Anne Wexler number.Margaret, you and I should interview asap.am today
Why does this keep happening?Pls do letter of congrats, ty etc.H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Monday, April 26, 2010 8:18 PM
'abedinh@state.gov'; 'JilotyLC@state.gov'; 'Russorv@state.gov'
Re: Bad news
PIs send a letter and add her to call list. I called yesterday and spoke w her son-in-law.Can you fax it to my DC house?Also, did Jake reach you about moving the Daviou mtg back so we can be better prepared?I want to see the proposed statement. Happy to have it issued in someone else's name. But I think we need to do it. So
weigh in. Thx.When can you talk? I'm free until 4 and after 7.Thank you for all of your great wprk this year!! And Merry Merry Christmas. See you in 2010.I can do it before noon tomorrow or on Sunday.H < hrod17@clintonemail.com >
Sunday, May 16, 2010 6:11 PM
'preines
'sullivanij@state.gov'
Re: AFPWhat about leaving late Friday after the WH mtg?Will the WH dinner still happen?If a city gives $ do they put up display/exhibits?We have tried before w/out success. Do you want to explore?As soon as I get the memo, I can do the call.Do you have his email address? The email I sent to you both came back undelivered.Given the AFP story today, have we delivered letter and given to appropriate press, now including AFP?Or after video conf?Don't forget the consolidated report of the Sarkozy mtg. One of the all-time best!Ok.OkOk.Do you know what this is?leverage
Pls print.Pls print.
H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Friday, April 9, 2010 7:42 AM
'JilotyLC@state.gov'
Fw: Hi Sis. My name is Roy Spence and I love you andNo need.
— Reason: 1.4(B), 1.4(D) — Declassify on: 08/01/2024back -- we need to talk
Can we talk now? I just woke up again.What is the date of her event in December?Can we still get him confirmed today?Based on the Brazilian decision he should release the hold. Do I need to call him?They are meeting at State so it's easy to do. We should schedule. Let's discuss today.Let's lock it in asap. Thx.
I am hoping to see draft of development speech today?Pls send me call sheet for Equadoran--i don't have a clue!Thx. Ops is trying to reach him. I spoke w Condi.Were you able to get a copy of it?Well, that is certainly worthy of being top secret. Fine to go w Mitchell version; Blair's seems written as an oral
statement.Good idea.On another matter--I'd like to w you. Pls remind me.What does this mean?Thx for sending. I've forwarded to Jake Sullivan in my office to follow up.Have you seen the memcon of my T/C w Shaun? Pls review so we can be prepared tomorrow.Yes--go ahead.Can you also send me Rocco's #?image007jpg; image001jpg; image002.jpg; image003jpg; image004jpg; image005jpg;
image006jpg; image007jpg
Pls print.Pls do.Thx.B6
RELEASE IN PART
B6FyiThe devil will be in the details, but I see no flags. Can you talk?I like the idea of it being issued by someone else but I still want to see it. Let's close this out.Done.I will miss you since I don't return until the 20th but I will look forward to what you and Bill (and others w you) think
about what, if anything, we can do in the Middle East under the current conditions. All the best. HWhen I get my new table in place, pls arrange for the round table to be moved into Cheryl's office; just the table, not the
chairs. She and I discussed what else could come out of her space. Thx.H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Sunday, January 31, 2010 8:54 PM
'gordonph@state.gov'
Re: NSS invitesThe 25 mile rule would include Englewood which is very close to the River. I don't see what we could do and if we
conclude there isn't anything, we should say that soon w regret, etc.Yes--call me.Thx but did you see the photos of my shoe falling off as I reached the top step of the Elysee to be greeted by Sarkozy?
Very funny--I'll bring them to show you!When can we do conf call on speech?OkCan I fit in a visit at the State Dept??Any word on status in Geneva?OkI talked w Ellen so up to date.Thx. Can you call Tom Donilon's office and schedule a call w him for me late tomorrow afternoon or evening (after I get
back from Kennedy funeral) or if that is not convenient for him, ask that he suggest times that work for him.Pis call me when you can to discuss w me.I assume Steve et at got the readoutsBut I just heard that federal agencies will be closed again tomorrow! What are we doing to avoid or win the EP vote on
2/11?Let's just stay w 6am tomorrow now. Thx.OkI just left, so if I get there by then, I will. Do you think that can work?On A8, in an article about campaihn spending, they compare my spending total from July 99 thru Nov 2000. 41.4 to 11
which is so misleading since he had a less than a five month campaign. Can you get correction somewhere?H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Tuesday, November 10, 2009 1:53 PM
'ValmoroU@state.gov'
Re: Schedule
Joe---I'm copying Lona in my office so you can contact her to schedue a visit. Thx for the kind words about our work on
behalf of women and Africa. HYes--I'll come out and eat w you all.We should try to reschedule call. The press statements explain a lot.H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Friday, January 27, 2012 7:15 AM
'Russorv©state.gov'
Fw: H: V good Intel internal Libya. Sid
hrc memo libya internal strife 012312.dooc
Pis print.I have to go back and there will be some meetings I will still have and I have a lot of work to drop off. I also am supposed
to meet w the POTUS and go to the WH dinner, both of which I believe will happen.I'm very happy to discuss. Can we get a decision made? B5Yeah! Thx.Really good ideas. But remind me who McGuire is.That's fine. How are you doing?That's good.Let's make calls tomorrow. And I'd like a transcript of Karzai's CNN interview today. How's the prep going?Fyi.OkFor the meeting?Pls print.What does Bill Burns think? I'd rather do it later so I can get ready to go.OkAm I supposed to do this?Holbrooke just told me he was going to London on 1/6 w Lute, Liz Sherwood-Randall and, maybe, Michele Flournoy. Do
you think Phil Gordon and Jack or you should go?Can we get Lisa's lunch rescheduled to before or after? And I'd have to do a letter for Dave's service. What are the
logisitics? Are there rooms for us if we take a smaller group?Pls print.Yes.Am I meeting w Cheryl?you?
Ok at 10:30.I did not know I was going out there today and I'm not sure why I'm going. What is it for?When am I supposed to call Libyans?What is Gordon's email? I couldn't get address off this traffic.Ok/See you later today.H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Sunday, January 31, 2010 4:43 PM
'mchaleja@state.gov'
Re: a couple of powerful quotes from foreign media which we highlighted in our cableOk w 7.
H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Sunday, February21 2010 9:14 PM
'sbwhoeop
Re: ShaunOnly Napolitano memo came thru.YesWho wrote this?Pls print.Let's do Jack at the office.I'm sitting right here. So I'm calling you now.Pis print.
H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Monday, May 18, 2009 11:01 AM
'abedinh@state.gov'
Fw: confidentialRussians are saying he is unavailable and don't know when or if he will call in. What's next step?Pls add him to call list for today.PIs print.wife gives birth to son in Miami
??????????????????????????with the Secretary
As soon as I'm off call now. Tell ops to set up.See below. Meeting with embassy folks now -- will report on that and dinner later.H <hrod17@clintonemail.com >
Sunday, Februa 21, 2010 7:58 PM
'sbwhoeop
Re: Shaun
That sounds good. Will you make reservations for us?Haiti that you asked for
Great ideas (no surprise). Let's work toward solid proposal maybe to Red Cross and Clinton Foundation since they have
unencumbered $Can you talk? Call the house.Another good idea.I can do at 2.Pls print.I spoke w Bildt about Internet freedom and thanked him for the op-ed. He wants to have a "brainstorming" seesion 0Who's Jim?H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Wednesday, March 31, 2010 4:36 PM
'sbwhoeop
Re: H: In case you haven't seen this in today's FT. Sid
Saw it. What do you make of it?There's a lot of good work in these papers and I thank everyone who helped. I have the following questions:
Why is there overlap btw what we sent over to the NSC already and what we have compiled into the larger
presentation? By my review, Tabs 1, 3, and 6 are in both packages. If we want to include these in both, we need an
annotated index that lists all the papers not just the main tabs.I have spoken to the following so they can be removed from list:
Reed
Podesta
Kasit
Wiese!
Rothschild
Rapoportconsulted. Sid
LaurenOk.Ok.GW is dodging me so ask that letter be drafted that I could send him asap making case.Can we be sure that press knows we supported lifting suspension w conditions which is what we got.Could I leave earlier on Sat--btw 8-9am since the mtg is Fri night?H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Monday, August 31, 2009 2:36 PM
'doug
'ValmoroU@state.gov'; 'verveerms@state.gov'
Re: Women's events
Doug--I'd like to discuss when you are here for Capricia's swearing in. I'm copying Lona and Melanne so they can
schedule. All the best, HI feel a little guilty asking about the report but could we get an outline by the weekend?Clinton Is?-over all it reflects your amazing strength of "Purpose"...keep on Sis and love
Could you be sure I get this article?I know! So are you there or leaving now? I'd love to talk w you and Bill.Ok I'm done w Strobe. Also let's go on our trip. I think it's worth it. And we can alWays add Israel as we did before!I want to send the development speech as delivered w a note from me to the appropriate Members of Congress
(authorizing, appropriating, leadership, others?). I can sign the letters anytime before I leave for Asia/Pacific on Monday
am. Thx so much.and...
Pis be sure I see Joe.Pls print.Pls print.
Original MessarOk.H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Sunday, June 6, 2010 4:16 PM
'millscd@state.gov'
'sullivanjj@state.govi; Huma Abedin
Re: Brief memo for Cheryl Mills on Colombia - for Secretary Clinton
B5I've reviewed the memo from Bob and Derek and can agree w its comments but would like to know what Jim thinks.Sorry. But I'm up now if you want to call.I don't have memo.Kudos to all.Ok. Let me know how it unfolds.Any word on Kennedy funeral?Can you get me more info about the shrine?I cannot do before 1 today. What about 7 or 8 am tomorrow?I would love to see you on Dec 14th as you pass thru town. I'm asking Huma and Lona to schedule a time for us to catch
up. Hope all is well w you and yours, HI had connection but cdn't hear so they're trying again.Can you pls send me a copy for today?H <hrod17@clintonemailcom>
Friday, March 9, 2012 7:40 AM
'sullivanjj@state.gov'
Fw: H: France 8t UK behind Libya breakup. Sid
hrc libya breakup.france8tuk behind split 030812.docx
This one strains credulity. What do you think?can you talk now?RELEASE
IN PART B6
Do you remember the young people who came to the Dip Room event who wanted to have a July 4th party on the
terrace to raise $ for the 8th floor? PIs call or see me tomorrow to discuss. Thx.No.I need to take the 8 since Bill is not going to DC tomorrow.Oh, good. Can we get it by 9/14 which is the deadline?That's fine. I did not hear about the arrest yet.Katie Stanton is leaving to go back to California. Will you ask her to come by to say goodbye to me? Thx.OkRomulo said they welcome additional help so I told them to pls follow up w our Ambassador. I think you should follow
up as well.
On a very bad line, Wirajuda seemed to welcome our support, including helicopters and other navel assets. Pls followup
and have Navy do as well.
Let me know what else we need to do.Do you know when it will arrive?What does Jim say? Tom Shannon? Dan Restrepo?They did.more
I read all the way down and am very concerned but not surprised. Have you shared the content w Bill? What do you
think should be done--and by whom--to address these issues?H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Saturday, January 23, 2010 4:15 PM
'sbwhoeop
Re: H: FYI: Any foreign nation or leader with a front company becomes a "person" under
US law. S
Not sure there is a legislative fix. Haven't read the opinion yet. May require constitutional amendment.Well, what doesn't kill you, makes you stronger gas I have rationalized for years), so just survive and you'll have
triumphed!
----On another matter, did you get all the stuff I sent in to be distributed, including the twitter article?Yeah!! Is he going w us?Yes--after 12:30.RELEASE IN PART B6
The pilots of our plane (and its owners) insisted we leave last night because of the hurricane so we did. Anyway, I'm
home and will call you later to catch up, but feel free to call me if needed.B6
Thankfully, all is well.Just learned Holbrooke will be back Tues night and be in office all day Wed. I've decided not to go to Cronkite service so I
can see him either Tues or Wed.
Ok on McCain mtg.Yes.H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Sunday, January 24, 2010 10:49 AM
Huma Abedin
'sullivanjj@state.gov'
Re: YangLet's discuss Monday.Here it is. Also, would be good if I could start calls now.Ok. I'm forwarding you more background from Shaun via Sid.PIs keep me updated on this project. Thx.Thank you so much.I'd like to invite two EUR staffers--Jeremy Shapiro and Siddharth Mohandas-- who wrote a good memo about US-EU to
come by and meet Lady Ashton tomorrow. Or even sit in on the mtg if ok w Phil Gordon.Fyi--here's info about the China/Iran deal I mentioned yesterday from a young woman who speaks Mandarin and
focuses on China's energy and military development.I haven't been able to get a line out on my berry so that may be why. But ops should be able to connect on the black.H ehrod17@elintonemail.come
Monday, January 23, 2012 1:41 PM
'sullivanjj@state.gov'
Fw: H: V good hetet internal Libya. Sid
hrc memo libya internal strife 012312.cioa
Fyi, as usual distribute as you determine.I thoiught ity could fill the hole left by the cancelling of the PC. It would be much better for me to do anytime on
Thursday.Call me at home thru Ops.Thanks for the help. We're working to schedule a time, and I'm looking forward to seeing her. Will you be in NY next
week?
,I would love to see you. We'll have to play timing by ear so I'm copying Huma and Lona to help schedule.H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Saturday, October 3, 2009 3:05 PM
'crowleypj@state.gov'; 'preines
'cheryl.mills 'pverveer
Re: Statement
B6
B5Pls advise if I can invite him stop by.H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Monday, April 26, 2010 8:14 PM
'sullivanjj@state.gov'
Re: Ahmadinejad to speak at RevCon
Very.I meant after 1:30. ThxCan you give me the background on this both for the mtg and because Lula wants to talk wPOTUs about it.Melanne--I sent you the emails from Burns forwarding both Kay Warren's and Lynn Lusi's emails expressing their
concerns about the partnership w Norway that I announced. I don't want to do anything that undermines Heal Africa.
Will we be sending $ to them for training too? Let me know how we can answer their anxiety since I admire all they're
doing. HH <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Tuesday, June 1, 2010 7:00 AM
'pverveer
Re: Ukraine
Very distressing report. If I go to Ukraine in early July, are you going w me? What could I do to address? Let's raise w Phil
Gordon today.Pis print.He wants to come see me w McCain, Graham and Collins about Afstan. Pls put on list to discuss.Ok. I will do that. Any other Members they want me to call?Ok that's when I will go. Is that certain?Agree w strategy.H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Saturday, December 5, 2009 11:41 AM
'millscd@state.gov.
Re: Have a great time!
just left my house heading for yours to check on the painting.Why did they call you?Yes--at 4:45.Charles Rivkin, the new Amb is being sworn in tomorrow, and asked me to please come. Is there any way I could be
there at all?Ok.I like that. Can you prepare cover so I can give to him today?Yeah!Useful insight. Pls circulate.Importance:
H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Thursday, January 7, 2010 6:52 AM
'JilotyLC@state.gov'
Fw: 2009-12-31 Lewis Work Plan
2009-12-31 Lewis Department Notice.docx; 2009-12-31 Lewis Work Plan.docx;
2009-12-31 Lewis Department Notice.docx; 2009-12-31 Lewis Work Plan.docx
High
Pls print.Haiti that you asked for
Pls print.I thought we were moving him to Thursday but schedule I just got says tomorrow. What's status?H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Tuesday, September 29, 2009 5:23 PM
'ValmoroU@state.gov'
'sullivanij@state.gov'
Fw:
Can you vet this request and advise me? Thx.I did not mention this because not sure how I felt about it, but if all agree it would help, I will call her.Ok.Here.are some odds and ends--
I'd like you to meet w me in person or over the phone before the Monday and Thurs mtgs w Asst Secs to set an agenda
of what I want raised
I just heard of something called the "Hillary Center" in Morocco. Can you run that to ground?
I talked w Walter Isaacson about his Palestinian project. Toni Verstandig runs it; pls call her to ask for the materials
which she told me she had prepared during the transition.Yes. Thx.Any word from Patricofs?That makes sense so go ahead. Thx.OkPls print.Pls add:
Alan Bersin over at DHS.
John Kerry and note subjects--Asad, Karzai,Pis put him on my call list and call to ask how late tonight or early tomorrow I can call him.Be sure Phil et. al. get the memcon.And also what would the process be--why would my parachuting in going to be determinative?Let's stick w the 2.Ok.Not surprised.Thx. Here are a few more--Did EUR get memcon of my call w Westerwelle?Pis print.OkHe told me that if the letters were delivered he would lift hold on Raj but not others. Can you verify?Also, I wrote about it in Living History and no one said a word. Was it still open in some form in 2004?Yes I did. Thx.Pis print.
H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Monday, February 1, 2010 8:50 AM
'JilotyLC@state.gov'
Re: HaitiI'm trying to call you now and ops says they can't find you. Can you call me?Ok. How about 7? Does that work for him? Can I call on my white phone which is now working?Yes--but it may be too late tonight so also ask about tomorrow. It's about the budget and the OMB are anxious to close
so I need to reach him in the next 12 hours since Jack just got the final word.I forgot I have to do stick. Are you free?H <hroc117@clintonemail.com>
Saturday, October 31, 2009 3:12 AM
'sbwhoeop
•Re: Memo on Cameron explosion in Europe, may affect Blair. Sid
That is so revealing--and wacky--but it perhaps leaves a very small oipening for Tony. What do you think? Happy
Halloween from Abu Dhabi!Pls print.S. Korea FM Yu wants to see me in DC June 5 to prepare for Pres Lee's trip to DC on June 16. Can I do that in the
afternoon?
I need some dates asap to offer for a mtg in DC or Europe w Quatari Sheika Musa.I respect her reasoning altho I regret her sense of responsibility.H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Monday, December 21, 2009 7:26 AM
'ca • nciamarshall@
RELEASE IN PART
B6Cheryl--i'll be at home until 4:30 and then all day tomorrow. Email if you want to talk and let me know what you think of
Punta Cana. HPls print.
H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Friday, February 19, 2010 12:14 AM
'JilotyLC@state.gov'
Fw: H: FYI. The end of Justice Jim. SidHarold---
First, Happy New Year to you and your family and thank you for all of your great work this past year. I am looking
forward to the year ahead.
Second, what can we do about Judge Urbina's ruling
example, what is the likelihood of success on appeal? Can the US file a civil action against the company? Pay
compensation to the victims? What other options do we have?
For B5
All the best, HH <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Wednesday, August 26, 2009 8:48 AM
'preines
Re: Les Gelb
RELEASE IN PART
B6
We should create a day--meeting w Webb about Burma, McCain/Lieberman/Graham about Af-Pak, etc. Meeting w
Mitchell/Holbrooke etc.H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Wednesday, December 23, 2009 1:24 PM
'sbwhoeop@
Re: any truth to this account? Sid
Who wrote this? It has some aspects right of the 48 hours I was there but not others.Ok.I spoke w him. Any word from Pam? I have to leave.I'd like to see her next week. Does Thursday night work?Good since it happens to be true! One thing I noticed is that both you and Bill were included in lunch seating. Can we be
sure they know Bill is not coming.Any updates?When can you talk?H <hrod17@clintonemail.com >
Tuesday, April 13, 2010 9:14 PM
'sbwhoeop
Re: H: If this poll holds, Labour has a majority. 1st debate thu. Sid
Just had drinks w Miliband who is still very worried. I have crossed fingers!Pis print.
From Sullivan, Jacob 3 [mailto:SullivanJJ@state.gov]
Sent: Thursday, September 13, 2012 01:25 PM
To: I-I
Subject: FW: Quick Summary of POTUS Calls to Presidents of Libya and Egypt
FYIHelp guide me where to get something good to eat!I'm willing to see him whenever.Pis discuss w me.We should do schedule so I have time w him when I arrive. I'm going to try to get their earlier if I can.
What are Gayle's issues?Calling now.ahead.
I can talk w him at 1 or 3.Ok. Thx.That is good news. Also, I'm around if you want to catch up until 4 when I leave for a wedding and to NY.RELEASE IN PART
B5,B6Let's discuss this am. I'm up and freer until 11.Mary Landrieu asked me to attend a dinner about foster care. Do you have any details? Also she mentioned an event at
the White House about adoption and foster care. Have you heard anything about this? Can you call Landrieu's office to
follow up?
I told Kouchner I would call him on 8/31. Pls remind me.I heard David Broder had a good column today. Did you see? Can you pis send to me? How was Face the Nation?H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Wednesday, February 10, 2010 3:00 PM
'sullivanjj@state.gov'
Re: IranHave we prepared a statement--w Bill or solo?Also after my mtg we want to see the potus later tuesday or wednesday.Can you talk/meet today?I will do today. So try to set up asap.Also, pls add Dan Kurtzer to call list.Ok but be sure it's proofreadLove the "doctrine" and I agree we need a health speech. I'd like to look for a venue before UNGA. And Happy Mother's
Day!Thx for all of your help.I prefer (1) and they can all stay the next day for meetings if possible.H <hrod17@ciintonemail.com>
Sunday, May 10, 2009 1:19 PM
'cheryl.mills Jake.Sullivan 'HAbedin
asked me to tell him if I objected to being named to the What do you all think?Pis print.
H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Wednesday. October 17 2012 5.48 PM
B6
Fw:
---Is this off?OkI can't get it to work. They go secure and then there are noises and voice interfering w any ability to talk. Can you help?Let's get call set and then right before it we can do fax.Did you reach her?I've just talked w Empey, Robinson and McG and, as of today, the vote will be fine on the 9th and it's up to the UUP to
decide if they want to remain relevant or not. Both Peter and Martin were positive so, unless a crisis erupts, all is well.Thx. We didn't get to it today. We should discuss further.Where are points? Jake did mention it, but I didn't know there was a decision.RELEASE IN PART
B6
Is Oscar at the house--he didn't answer my emai and we're headed there now.Mike.I'll doOk. When will I call Okada? Kusa? Robinson and McGuinness? Kouchener?What, if anything, was decided about whether I should call him? The email traffic I read has Holbrooke saying "yes" and
Frank R disagreeing. Can you update pls.H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Saturday, January 30, 2010 5:39 PM
'millscd@state.goy'
Re:Ok. Did you see the latest FT article?Huma Abedin
Also food and water?If true, this is encouraging. Should consider passing to Israelis.Sounds good. Let's discuss when we see each other--hopefully next week.B5Can you talk?I think we should reconsider this invite.In a minority govt or coalition?
Original Messa eGood advice.Do you have the two memos that he has prepared for my signature to the President? I'd like to see them.H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Saturday, Janua 30, 2010 9:57 PM
'sbwhoeo
'sullivanjj@state.gov'
Re: H: BREAKTHROUGH IN NI TALKS! Sid
Also, I'm copying Jake Sullivan so we can arrange a time for Shaun's call tomorrow. Thx again.Ban really wants to do this w me but he cannot do it at 3:30 on the 24th because he has to go to P'burgh. He asked that
we work w Bob Orr on his staff to find another time if possible. We should try to do that asap. He doesn't leave NY until
afternoon of 24th so possible to do in morning. He returns late afternoon on 25th. What can we work out? If all else
fails, work w Orr to get the right representative.H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Tuesday, November 3, 2009 3:13 AM
'pverveer
Morocco
Ambassador Jaidi sends his warmest wishes and Let's discuss as soon as we are
both in the same country at the same time!
There is also much more to review. I'm off to the Forum and then to Cairo before coming to DC tomorrow night.RELEASE IN PART B6
Yeah!!! Thank you soo much.Ok to go.Print this, not the first version.Either now (Bill wants to catch up w you too) or early tomorrow
- am?This is s000 sweet. Thank you.Why would we draw lines at all? Invite everyone who is part of effort.I can talk today before 10:45 and tomorrow early am, btw 7-9 or from noon to 1 or after 6. What works for you?How does the article compare to the cover???
Huma Abed inHave they landed yet? Was Congress notified?He's thrilled. Wants to know when it's actually out but will keep it close hold until then. I want to send him to both
Ireland and the North as soon as possible.Did you ever ask77what else I can take? Should I call him directly? B6Bartholomew
Marshall, Capricia P; Verveer, Melanne S
RELEASE IN PART
B6Pls come see me tomorrow about redesigning and updating the format. Thx.Pis print for me and review for CGI speech.Just a mtg.What is his email?Pls print 3 copies.But I'm leaving here on Wed and I'll be at home over the weekend so I'd rather get it over w in the morning. Can they do
it in the barn?H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Saturday, October 10, 2009 11:17 AM
'CampbelIKM@state.gov'; 'shapiroa@state.gov'
'sullivanjj@state.gov'; 'capriciamarshalli
Fw:
I would like to do something for Bill and think it could be a good followup to our Dialogue. What do you all think?Ok to do conf call 1300 Sunday and call w Lady Ashton before that.•
Let Jim know about Lavrov and I can't talk w Feingold now. What about tomorrow morning?They were earlier but somewhere along the way disappeared!Good work.A few items:
Are you able to move everything from today to later in the week? What about the personnel meetings?
Am I seeing the Angolan FM when he visits May 19-22?
Was I invited by Powell and Albright to attend the Initiative for Global Development event this Wed-Thurs at the Willard
Hotel?I also suggested an Ian Paisley call to Cameron.03-23-2010.doc; Strategic Dialogue Press Clips March 24, 2010.doc; Strategic Dialogue
Press Clips 03-25-2010.doc; Strategic Dialogue Press Clips 03-26-2010.doc; Strategic
Dialogue Press Clips 03-27-2010.doc; Strategic Dialogue Press Clips 03-28-2010.doc;
Strategic Dialogue Press Clips 03-29-2010.doc; Strategic Dialogue Press Clips
03-30-2010.doc; Strategic Dialogue Press Clips 03-31-2010.doc; Strategic Dialogue
Press Clips 03-22-2010.doc; Strategic Dialogue Press Clips 03-23-2010.doc; Strategic
Dialogue Press Clips March 24, 2010.doc; Strategic Dialogue Press Clips 03-25-2010.doc;
Strategic Dialogue Press Clips 03-26-2010.doc; Strategic Dialogue Press Clips
03-27-2010.doc; Strategic Dialogue Press Clips 03-28-2010.doc; Strategic Dialogue
Press Clips 03-29-2010.doc; Strategic Dialogue Press Clips 03-30-2010.doc; Strategic
Dialogue Press Clips 03-31-2010.doc
Pls print for me and HAPPY EASTER!Very touching.This draft sounds didactic. That's ok in terms of substance--as far as I know--but it reads like an automatic weapon
which may be inevitable since there's so much material to cover. I just want to be sure the facts are right.Let's discuss.Will I get info/names for Philipines and Indonesia?Jake--I hope you and the Sullivan clan had a glorious and joyous holiday and that you're revved up for 2010! Thanks for
all you did to make this past year a successful launch. Now, the hard work starts as we try to deliver. But, it's no
hyperbole to say you are a joy to work. Onward--and upward! HPIs print.Pls be sure Bill and I do a letter to for his marriage in June. B6
And pls put the following on my call list:
Alston Johnson
Francis Collins
Derek Harvey (he came into see me in the Senate) Paul Charron Lisa Caputo Marty EdelmanSet it up and also call to Chris Hill. Or I can call Ops directly. Where are you guys?Did you ever talk to Podesta about CB?SEND by David Shipley?Can you contact your protocol friend in China and ask him if I could get photos of the carpets of the rooms I met in w
POTUS during the recent trip? I loved their designs and the way they appeared carved. Any chance we can get this?Doug---
Pakistan's government can sure use the help. I'd like you to talk w Judith McHale who is working w Holbrooke's team,
including Ashley, so.I'm copying Judith and Paul Jones, Amb Holbrooke's Deputy, so they can coordinate the followup.
Pls let me know what the next steps are w Amb Haqqani. Thanks too for your other work on global women's issues.
Best, HI agree w Philippe.Bill wants me to speak to/meet w Eduard Mulette who will replace head of UN Mission. Do you know him?PIs add Henry KissingerH <hrod17@clintonemail.com >
Tuesday, December 29, 2009 3:46 PM
'cheryl.mills 'sullivanjj@state.gov'
Fw: FYI: . Sid
What's the story on this?Ok--but when are we scheduled top talk? Also pls send me five main points of my speech to summarize our goals. I want
to reference them.H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Sunday, March 21, 2010 4:14 PM
'sullivan-@state.gov'
Re: letterJack--
How did the two PCs go--on At and Somalia aid?Pis add Elaine Schuster,
Vicki Kennedy at
General Lloyd Austin
I want to do letters/calls to Archbishop Tutu, and to Gail Collins at NYTimes (pls get copy of her book, When Everything
Changed) so pis send me their addresses and numbersI could do at 9:15 or 9:30 if that's ok.Let's hear it for the nuns--I knew when they came out, the die was cast and Bart would get his knuckles rapped. Now,
let's wrap this up in the Senate and go drink something unhealthy! All your AIPAC friends told me you're doing well so
take care and keep going--w the wind at you back and my fervent cheers--HillaryDid you get any feedback from these?No. Can you send?more
Are you going to stay home?Courtney--Please share this w Zia and use for scheduling matters. Thanks so much, HRCOk. Thx.Great news. Could you have someone send me the breakdown of the votes? Thx so much.Let me know what the outcome is---this is very unfortunate so hope we get it fixed.That is important. I will work on it--there's a very long and sobering list. Does Jillian have specific ideas?Use this to emphasize to Denis the importance of OAS position. Do you know ifFwould take it again? B6Kurt--
I just received your request that I call Sec. Gates re our mil-mil relations. He is on vacation and it may take a few days
to schedule a non-urgent call. What is our timeline on this? HRCWhat happened w our plans for this? There's nothing about it on my schedule so I assume nothing is happening.Will I get speech soon? Can yo fax it to house?I actually like the two column version better than the single page one I rec'd today.We should schedule her call today or Monday.W/whom? I thought she wanted to speak w me Sunday morning. I just want to do it as late as possible.Can you set up Nakasone call?Anyway this can be shared w Denis? Anything else I need to know? I'm up for the day.We should help students whose education has been interrupted finish here or in French speaking countries. See story
below.Received.I will call later.H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Saturday, June 12, 2010 9:53 PM
'abedinh@state.gov'
Re: Calls tomorrow
I may have to do on blackberryPls let me know what the follow up will be. Kabila may be at the luncheon this week so I at least could say something or
deliver a letter.Take off:
Miliband
Carson
Netanyahu
Mubarak
Powell
Rice
Lautenberg--but ask Rob to do note
PascualOk put Gheit thru.Pls see below and scheduling options requested. Is this a cover story? Does anyone know? By the way, this Sunday's
story about Barbra was fabulous.Pls try to set up week after UNGA.I spoke w Jack Reed. He said I could pick the date in either Oct or Nov to be honored bt BENS. We could pick a Friday
when I'd be back in NY.
Did I ask that you set up mtg/meal w Elie Weisel and his wife?
Also, I need to see Holbrooke early on Thursday after Labor Day to be briefed before a WH mtg at 11. I can do as early as
needed.Could Carl come tomorrow morning at 8?Pls print.
H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Wednesday, May 20, 2009 8:21 AM
'abedinh@state.gov'
Fw: Letter to Secretary ClintonYes, I am.I'll call her this am.Also,Can you be sure Jeff sees this since he's on travel? Also pass on to Ron Schlicher to work if Jeff not available.Will the DCA team be in Columbia in early August? I thought we had set that up but heard today they might not get
there until September. What's the plan?OkPls be sure I say something about women in my remarks as a set up to Karzai's comments about opportunities for
women.Did we ever get a time? The call will last an hour. I can also do early tomorrow am.Pis add former Amb Frank Wisner. And is Ray La Hood still on it--pis be sure he is. Thx.Andrew--how was your conversation? Any ideas I should follow up on?I agree.Add to my call list:
-we should have numbers
we have #sThat's very nice but you should get it! But, of course, I would accept on behalf of all of us.Thx. I just emailed her.PIs print. .Just saw the WaPo article w your photo and wondered whether that was on your list?I thanked Prince Saud.Pis send
H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Wednesday, July 1, 2009 8:26 PM
'JilotyLC@state.gov'; 'Russorv@state.gov'
Fw:
a letter of congrats and good wishes.Let me know what time she offers.RELEASE IN PART B6
Can you map out what this would look like and check w Jake again to ask what I would be doing before and after POTUS
arrived.So, neither option was mentioned; it was "my administration" which may mean they'll pursue out of WH. What do you
know?UNGA question:
What is timing for POTUS meetings w Israel and PA?
Am I going to the deforestation mtg? If not, can Todd go?
Do we know yet if there will be an ASEAN-US Summit while POTUS in Singapore?
I'd like to set up mtg w John Kerry for week after UNGA. Offer him choice if he wants to come to State but make clear I
will come to meet him at his office or other place of his choosing.
Also, how are we doing w Durbin mtg--I owe him one and not sure I can wait for larger Reid/Pelosi mtg.
There is a Dec 11 mtg in Costa Rico which I may want to attend as part of the larger Latin Am trip.What is Ann Lewis's email?Cherie-
H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Friday, May 22, 2009 4:47 PM
Re: confidential
So sorry I've been slow in responding but I am very interested in talking w the Sheika. I would be happy to host her if
she were to come to DC or meet her in Europe when I'm next there. How do you think I should proceed? All the best,
HillaryYou never know.Is he back in the country? Does it need to be secure?FyiThe Lithuanian FM just told me the Community of Democracies is July 9-11 in Cracow, Poland. I have to go since I
promised the Polish FM but had hoped they would schedule July 2-4. Can you check w EUR and DRL to see if dates can
be moved? If not I can only go for the 9th since Let's see if there is
any give. I would also go to other places first during that week in Europe, including Warsaw for a bilateral meeting.
Also, am I doing a video to congratulate Lithuania on the 20th anniversary of their Independence on March 11?Is there something magic about that date?This is so way cool. How can we give and get public credit? Let's be sure we get team Haiti upstairs next week for a big
Thank you!H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Saturday, December 19, 2009 2:01 PM
'millscd@state.gov'
Re: Cambodia Returns 20 Uighurs to ChinaH <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Monday, May 31, 2010 12:57 PM
'sullivanjj@state.gov'
Fw: H: Several observations on the Israeli raid. Sid
Fyi and itysYou can send it to me or if that's not easy for you, tomorrow is ok.RELEASE IN PART B6Be sure I have most updated tps.I also want to call the head of the Red Cross.I will get there in about 10 minutes so they could start the prelims. I have both speeches.Pis print.you?
Is there a call sheet?Brian--
Thanks for the headsup on this. We are working to decide the most effective way forward, and I'll keep you informed.
We have some good ideas as to what our govt can do, but we also want to see pressure from local people brought on
the British and Scottish govts.
Can you and Bruce reach out to the community in London and Edinburgh to urge them to raise this w PM Brown and
other govt officials? We'd like to see top down and bottom up pressure. Let me know what you think.No I reached him. Thx.Good work. Let me know if I need to do anything else.Are you up? Can I call?Dear Cherie--
I could make time to meet in DC during the weeks of June 8th and 15th. Would that work? I would rearrange my
schedule to fit her time.
Otherwise, I will be in Trieste, Italy and Corfu, Greece for meetings the last week in June.
Let me know if this works. Thx and all the best, HJoan makes good points. Let's hold on doing anything until we all talk.Is the speech now being reviewed? I think the basics are there, altho I am aware that every word will be parsed. Also, I
think we should endorse institutional reform to support that agenda.Could we do conf call at 7am to go over some questions?Burns--thank you for forwarding this request. I always want Tony Campolo (and Peggy) to be able to find me. I'm copying
my assistant, Lauren Jiloty, so she can give you her info for contact purposes. All the best, HPls print for me.I am so sorry we lost him. Ed Rendell told me he wants to hold a big memorial service in the State Capitol in Harrisburg
but he hasn't spoken to Joyce yet. I haven't either. I'd like to go too wherever it is. Let me know what you hear.
Also, since the govt is closed again tomorrow and Congress cancelled too, and another big storm is expected tomorrow
night, do you think Congress will even bother showing up for our hearings? I'm planning on working from home.What is her family life complexity?Pis add Jackie Newmyer and Mayor Nutter (215-686-2181) to call list
Can you get an office # for Terry Murray?Thanks so much. But all the positive feedback is worrying! Loved seeing you the other night.Another example of "you should take the log from your own eye before criticizing the speck in your neighbor's."Are you calling me?I will have more to say when I see you on the plane, but I wanted to share some thoughts from Judith McHale, that are
not in reaction to the speech which I doubt she's seen, but which more generally address the question of communicating
w Muslim audiences
Judith mentions a recent piece by Joe Nye which is also worth reading that I will forward to you. Thx.
Muslim engagementOk. Let's do him, Mcguinness and Gates and F-Fasi. Probably from the office to ensure a good connection.I would stop on way to Tallin but have to get back after. Would that work?Am on call now so let me know when you can talk later.As I now understand it, I'm supposed to talk to the Turkish FM at 7:15, the Polish FM at 7:30 (which I just found out
about) and then Kerry, Lugar and Berman btw 8-10. What about the calls to Mubarak and King Abdullah? Do you know
of any other calls?Thank you! What time tomorrow for Isabelle?When the snow melts, I'd love to hear what he had to say!Maria, Anne-Marie and Cheryl,
H <hrod17@clintonemail.com >
Sunday, January 17, 2010 9:53 PM
'oterom2@state.gov'; 'slaughtera@state.gov'; 'cheryl.mills
'FuchsMH@state.gov'
Water
March 22 is World Water Day (who knew?) Could we have a policy ready to announce by then? I have some ideas so
when we all get a chance to breathe, let's discuss. Here's to H20.I just tried calling but couldn't find her. I'm on way home.Good. What is latest re Sid Blumenthal?Ok.Sorry--I'm up now so come when you are able. Just knock on the door to the bedroom if it's closed. Did you also talk w
Cheryl?No. I will do later.Pls add to schedule from 12:30 to 2:30. Thx.Anytime btw 9-10 is ok if it's a problem to change to 10.Do you have an opinion about this?Let's discuss at am mtg.Ok w me. Can you talk?I arrived for the 10:15 mtg and was told there was no mtg. Matt said they had "released" the time. This is the second
time this has happened. What's up???Explain again why we shouldn't have PJ apologize?As I have said repeatedly, I do not want to see Palau shortchanged. I do not know whether this assessment is accurate,
so can I pls get an update and recommendation about to take care of this?Pis work out a time for us to meet w him.Getting it on other sites like MTVu would be great.We have such a strong case. Can we try to get Sibelius and Vilsack on board?I will call all--around 7:10.He did. Thx.Yeah!! Is he now official? Can I call him? Can I ask him to start?I talked to Shelly and she is grateful for your call. She has a new phone and hasn't set up her VM yet.The Dominican minister here in Costa Rica said the DR would host a "World Conf on Haiti" on June 2 in the DR (of
course). First I'd heard of it, and, I assume, first for you too. Are you or someone in our world or Bill's in contact w them?
Pres Fernandez is a force to be reckoned w since he spans the Latin Am political spectrum fro Chavez to us. I will see him
later in Guatemala. We are handicapped by our lack of an Ambassador there--what is latest on Raul? Will he ever be
nominated?I am in the restaurant w Bader. Come see us.I'd like to stick w the 8 if we think it will go; if not, should we try the train at 6 or 7 if they're going; if not, I'd like to try
the 7am Monday shuttle as a last resort. How will we decide?Lisa---
I just landed from Cairo and would love to come to lunch and, as of now, I will be in DC. So just let me know time and
place!
I'm copying Lona so she can connect w you since I leave again on Sat for two weeks. This travel gig is never ending--
can't wait for Thanksgiving for a few days off.
Hope you're well, my friend.How would you frame the relevance? I'm copying Jake Sullivan who works w me on this.Pls print.
----I think it's quite good and covers most issues well. I think we need the additional lead on we discussed. Holbrooke wants
to talk--any feedback befote I call him?B6I'd like to give him a law school graduation gift. Let's discuss tomorrow.Scott--
I think this is an idea worth exploring and have asked Cheryl to work w you to run the traps on it. Have you discussed it
w anyone at the WH yet? I'd like to know their reaction. Thanks for all your dedicated work. HRCWhat about Judith McHale and Kurt and everyone who asked to see me? I have to come anyway.Pls add his burial ceremony at Arlington on July 14 as option for me. Thx.A call may be more realistic but see what we can do.H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Thursday, April 15, 2010 12:54 PM
'mtorrey
'balderstonkm@state.gov'
Re: 'Stone Harbour,LLC'
Marty--I'm copying Kris and asking that he connect you w Lou C de Baca whose in charge of the office responsible for
trafficking in State so you can explore ways of helping. Thx.OkH <hrod17@clintonemail.com >
Friday, May 6, 20111:53 AM
'sullivanjj@state.gov'
Fw: H: UBL, AQ & Libya. Sid
hrc memo bin laden, aq & libya.docx
More to pass on--disturbing, if true.
_ -----
From
Sent: Monday, May 02, 2011 09:12 AM
To: H
Subject: H: UBL, AQ & Libya. Sid
May 2, 2011
For HillaryPis read the following. I've followed this case
Torture on homefront cries out for justice
Comments <http://www.suntimes.com/news/marin/1734591,CST-EDT-caro126.article>
August 26, 2009
BY CAROL MARIN <mailto:cmarin@suntimes.com> Sun-Times Columnist
The feds can't -- just yet -- deport Michigan restaurateur Ibrahim Parlak to his native Turkey. But they are frighteningly
closer.
And the irony screams out.
Carol Mann
On Monday, the same day Eric Holder, President Obama's attorney general, announced he would appoint a special
counsel to investigate whether torture was used by the CIA to extract confessions from foreign suspects, a U.S. appeals
court at the behest of the U.S. government ruled that it didn't have a problem sending Parlak back to the country where
he was tortured -- imprisoned for 17 months, shocked with electrodes, hung by his arms and sexually violated.
A Turkish Kurd, Parlak was granted political asylum in 1992. It was before our government got cozier with Turkey, before
it re-classified some of the Kurdish separatist movement as "terrorist" and before the attacks of Sept. 11. With 9/11,
Ibrahim Parlak's horror began anew.
Suddenly he looked different to the newly created Department of Homeland Security and to the Justice Department's
Immigration courts. Instead of seeing a hard-working, tax-paying Chamber of Commerce member who ran Cafe Gulistan,
a small Middle Eastern restaurant in the resort town of Harbert, Mich., tlie feds now saw an international menace.
In 2004, the FBI grabbed Parlak and locked him up.
If it hadn't been for a volunteer team of lawyers, including a Reagan-appointed former U.S. attorney, a former FBI anti-
terrorism legal adviser and the bipartisan intervention of Michigan's Sen. Carl Levin, a liberal Democrat, and Rep. Fred
Upton, a conservative Republican, Parlak would still be in jail.
Thanks to them, this 47-year-old father of a 12-year-old girl is temporarily free. But just barely.
The newest outrage is the 2-1 decision issued by Cincinnati's 6th Circuit Court of Appeals on the same day Holder
launched his torture inquiry.
B5
The majority opinion was issued by two Bush appointees put on the bench after 9/11. Judge Julia Smith Gibbons and
Judge Jeffrey Sutton upheld the Justice Department's Immigration courts ruling that Parlak failed to disclose his
relationship to the now-labeled terrorist organization even though he was never proven to be a member.
Let's remember something about our immigration courts. They are not independent. They work for whoever is the
attorney general. And the past rulings against Parlak came under two now-controversial Bush appointees, John Ashcroft
and Alberto Gonzales.
The fairness of immigration rulings has been ripped by none other than Judge Richard Posner of the 7th Circuit Court of
Appeals, one of the nation's most brilliant judges. By September of 2005, Posner noted "a staggering 40 percent of the
136 petitions" had been reversed due to, according to one ruling, a willingness to ignore "the most basic of facts."
Echoing Posner now is the dissenting judge on the Parlak appeal. Judge Boyce F. Martin, a Carter appointee, writes with
both clarity and conviction, arguing the government's "awesome power was used here to railroad a man out of our
country."
Like a surgeon, Martin dissects the Justice Department's immigration courts and the majority opinion of his own
colleagues, and ends by saying, "I remain hopeful, nevertheless, that this case is but a sad remnant of an era of paranoid,
overzealous, error-riddled and misguided anti-terrorism and immigration enforcement that has now gone by the
wayside. It is just a shame that, even if my hope proves true, it is too late for Ibrahim Parlak."
Parlak's legal team will appeal.
Meanwhile, Holder, like Ashcroft and Gonzales before him, is the new boss of the immigration courts.
As he investigates questions of U.S. torture abroad, here's hoping Holder examines the ongoing domestic legal torture of
Ibrahim Parlak.I mentioned to you that Saud asked if we objected to their making a grant to Cuba for development in health. I don't see
why we should but I may be missing something. Pis run the traps.I want to give job--is there a slot in WHA or S/P or elsewhere for her? B6
Also, it goes w/out saying that someone who lacks discretion is not possible.
So let's wait and see who else Lissa turns up.Importance: High
Pls print.Ok. Safe travels.Diplomacy, 'and the Real Lessons for U.S. Diplomacy
Worth reading.
Fro "mailtc
Sent. Monday, October 15, -
2012 _u:zi--
A79—
To: H
Subject: Fwd: [Salon] The Death of Ambassador Chris Stevens, the Need for "Expeditionary Diplomacy, "and the Real
Lessons for U.S. Diplomacy
Helpful article. Sid
Sent from my Verizon Wireless 4G LTE DROIDThx. We have to expedite this since the Columbians are being pressured. Will you be seeing Bermudez tomorrow?PIs tell Lael how pleased--and relieved--I am for her--and you! Now, take her away for a night or weekend, maybe the
Inn at Little Washington or Greenbriar or anywhere sans kids. HMay I pis get drafts for each day?What is it?Finally!!! Who didn't vote?Thx for following up on both.Did you see Kori Schake article in WSJournal, Fri 9/25 attacking the civilian effort in AF? We have to answer more
convincingly the point about Karl's request.I spoke w Berman who asked that someone call Payne. Do you know if that is happening?H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Friday, August 14, 2009 4:39 PM
'sullivanjj@state.gov'; 'reinesp@state.gov'; Huma Abedin
Fw: damn this is good...
We should figure out how to distribute this. Thx for a great trip!Travel well. I'll look forward to hearing your report.It is markedly better. But, as I'm reading thru it, I notice missing words and what appear to be gaps as a result of editing.
Could you pls read carefully and could we talk in about 30 minutes?Can you check w Shaun and see what's happening?Can I greet her while she's here?Pls remove the following:
Lobo
Lavrov
Talbott
Conyers
Murtha
Solis
Nagin
Stewart
HeightPis add:
Jackie Newmyer
And can you get an office # for Terry Murray?Good. Who else was called?Talked w him.Are you free for a quick dinner or lunch in the next week?H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Sunday, October 18, 2009 10:09 PM
Can we talk tonight or tomorrow am?
Rahm--I have a few matters to discuss. Pis let me know what times would work for you. Thx--HillaryThx so much for your help--and for Ernie Banks! Let's play two!!H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Monday, November 2, 2009 3:10 AM
'SteinbergJB@state.gov'; 'gordonph@state.gov'
'sullivanii@state.gov'
Jim and Phil--
I returned his call and discussed the Macedonia name issue, Cyprus, and relations w Turkey. There's a memcon that
reflects his stated commitment to solve or improve status of these issues.
I've known him a long time and will be happy to follow up w him on any and all of these matters w your guidance. He
seems determined to put points on the board to have a fast start so we should intensify our efforts w him. Let me know
what else you want me to do. Thx.Also pls get me a copy of the President's Nobel speech.H <hrod17@clintonemail.com >
Sunday, October 11, 2009 5:54 AM
Re: Checking in
Very good mtgs w Shaun and David M. Now on way to Chequers. Tally Ho.Can you get a cell for her? I left a message on her home phone. Thx.RELEASE IN PART
1.4(B),B1,1.4(D)
1.4(D)
B1
Also, I just saw on the schedule I was expected to speak for only 12 minutes. I think the speech as written is longer but I
haven't seen the final draft. Is there a teleprompter?
I also don't yet have any briefing materials. Will I get them tonight or tomorrow morning?OkDid you get anything from him? See below.And would like to see Holbrooke before I go to airport if you can get him to come up.Will we send a funeral delegation?Do we have a # for her in Rochester?Pls print.
H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Monday, February 1, 2010 8:51 AM
'JilotyLC@state.gov'
Re: Thank youPrefer 9.I talked w Lobo already but Equdoran not available.H <hrod17@clintonemail.com >
Thursday, February 4, 2010 7:09 PM
'sbwhoeop
Re: URGENT GOOD NEWs ON NI!!!! Sid
B6
That is wonderful! Kudos to Gordon and Shaun.H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Monday, August 3, 2009 6:17 AM
'abedinh@state.gov';
Re: Whitehaven cocktail tables
I can't do tomorrow and I won't be back for two! weeks.PIs print.H <hrod17@chntonemail.com>
Monday, May 2, 201111:08 AM
'JilotyLC@state.gov'
Fw: H: UBL, AQ & Libya. Sid
hrc memo bin laden, aq 8t libya.doot
Pis print.
From; B6
Sent: Monday, May 02, 2011 09:12 AM
To: H
Subject: H: UBL, AQ & Libya. Sid
May 2, 2011
For HillaryPls add Barbara Walters, she's having heart surgery.Thanks!When will he do Senate/Feinstein?
From Mills, Cheryl D [mailto:MillsCa©state.govj
Sent: Wednesday, November 14, 2012 0806 PM Eastern Standard Time
To: H
Subject Fw: POLITICO Breaking NewsH <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Friday, March 26, 2010 5:45 AM
'sbwhoeop
• Re:
I have extended my congrats to all.What does that mean for our schedules?PIs thank your mother for me!B6
Pls add Jill Iscol and Melanne to call list forPls print two copies for me.Can you check on this for us? Thx.Would you pls give Lanny a report and do you know who is keeping Solomon informed?— Reason: 1.4(D) — Declassify on: 10/25/2019
RELEASE IN PART
B1,1.4(D), B5Pls print for me.Pls read and discuss.Can you come see me to discuss? Thx.U.S. Department of State
Case No. F-2015-04841
Doc No. C05739823
Date: 05/13/2015
STATE DEPT. - PRODUCED TO HOUSE SELECT BENGHAZI COMM.
SUBJECT TO AGREEMENT ON SENSITIVE INFORMATION & REDACTIONS. NO FOIA WAIVER.
RELEASE IN
PART B5,B6Pis print.Did right by you today---as well she or anyone should.How does the collapse of the Dutch govt. affect our speech?I thought she wasn't available but that Alex was coming--or is that old berry info?Pls print two copies.Have you learned any more? I'm copying Lauren to get his #s.Sounds great.Sen. Tester--Pls ask someone on Michele Bond's team to call Jamie Wise on Sen. Tester's staff to explain our orphan
procedures. The Senator said he had about 15 families who had gone thru the adoption process.
Pls add Stephanie Miner and Jack Mannion to a guest list for a future event at State.
Also, Jack Rosen still wants a mtg sometime in the future. So ask Lona just to add him to a list but not schedule it.Does GOH see the food coming in and know we are delivering?I'm happy to talk w Shaun anytime.Jack--
In looking at my schedule, I could talk w you by phone Sunday or Monday, rather than meeting, which would give you
back your Monday and service event. I learned the office will be closed Monday, so I will be working from home. Does
that make sense?
What times would be good to talk tomorrow or Monday?
Thx, HillaryWhen will you be back so we can catch up? Also who is your right hand on all of these initiatives? I'm copying Lona so
she can work w your office for a time.I just landed at Andrews.H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Saturday, May 30, 2009 10.22 AM
jake.sulliva
Re:
Note the importance they place on including Insulza.H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Monday, September 21, 2009 4:20 PM
'millscck@state aov'
Re:
So, what next?Yes to both.This new effort is very encouraging but will require boatloads of patience.Where is Steinberg? He needs to be upfront early.Calling now.See you tomorrow. B6Pls give me printed copy today.Ok. I'll meet you at the Waldorf.Ok. Call after 3. Thx.Cheryl--we should postpone until we get Bill there.Lavrov thanked me for sending Ellen to Geneva and was delighted to hear she would be back on the 9th and would stay
until we reached agreement. You can read the memcon for more details.Yes.Calling now. POTUS hasn't called yet.I agree. Thx.H <hrod17@clintonemail.com >
Tuesday, July 14, 2009 9:46 AM
'Imuscatine
Re: CFR latest draft
It is getting better. I've gone thru it once and will be ready to discuss later. Thank you s000 much.I did get it. Did you just get mine w questions about tomorrow and Monday?Finally! Thx for helping out.ThxSo set up the time.Can you call me thru ops.H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Monday, October 15, 2012 4:46 PM
'hanleymr@state.gov'
Fw: Fwd: [Salon] The Death of Ambassador Chris Stevens, the Need for ''Expeditionary
Diplomacy, "and the Real Lessons for U.S. Diplomacy
Pls print.Ok. I'm on way to airport. Any readout from WH mtg? Any other news?Not at first. I need to talk to him one on one and I can make Jack's points and mine. So please get Jack's concerns for me
before the call.H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Friday, February 5, 2010 7:12 AM
Huma Abedin
'sullivanjj@state.gov'
Re: Fyi - robinson/mcguiness haven't confirmed yet.
And I doubt they will. Too much else going on. Also, we should put out the statement now to get into stories before
anyone else. I can still do press event.H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Wednesday, May 13, 2009 10:02 AM
'millscd@state.gov'
Re:More fyi.H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Wednesday, January 20, 2010 10:30 PM
'sullivanjj@state.gov'; 'tillemnants@state.gov'
Re: Speech ETA?
Thank you TT for a very good speech. I have a few questions:
Also, pls be sure the text is carefully proofread since there are a number of typos and missing words.Could you work w Derek, Philippe and others to draft this report for us to send to the President after our next trip?
We could workd on it during the trip. Let's discuss tomorrow. Thx.It sounds as tho the war may be over. I want to move on a few fronts that I'd like to discuss. Pis let me know when I can
call you--and what #. Thx.When can I call him?Pls print.Ok to connect.H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Saturday, May 8, 2010 6:57 AM
'slaughtera@state.gov'
Re: The political ramifications of the Greek/European debt crisis
Pls share w me whatever S/P prepares.
Thx.H <hrod17@clintonemail.com >
Saturday, January 23, 2010 3:51 PM
'sbwhoeop
Re: H: FYI: Any foreign nation or leader with a front company becomes a "person" under
US law. S
This is unbelievable. Or maybe totally so given the forces at work.How did you like the man you, Doug and Justin met w last night? Are you coming out here today?What happens to my schedule if I have to go to Copenhagen, probably Wed-Fri?Ok.Pls add to my call list. He's in New York City working for the Methodist Church.The reason I asked is that both Post and News have people quoted saying they asked me for help since technically he is
in China.Can you get me transcript of story on NPR this am about how nearsightedness is cause?Not if they say there have been problems which they were addressing before the quake and w outside help will continue
and achieve their reform agenda.OkI need to start a weekly mtg w the Undersecretaries. Could we do it at 9 on Wednesdays?H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Sunday, December 20, 2009 9:41 AM
B6
Per call last night
Let me know when and if I should make call. Thx.What is the Bolton letter about the ICC refer to?Thx. Can we talk tonight?Wow! Tell dd I was really flattered and Happy Halloween from Abu Dhabi!Pls add as option: April 25--EMILY'S LIST 25th anniversary.Good for Paul! I look forward to reading it.Can you also put people on domestic radio, including talk shows getting out info and answering questions?I have not looked at it (if I have it which I'm not sure about). So want Mike's advice. We should talk about it this
afternoon--pis set a time w Huma to do so.Pis print.
H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Sunday, November 18, 2012 5:41PM
Fvv: WSJ: Hillary and Libya
From Mills, Cheryl 1) [mailto:MillsCD@state.gov]
Sent: Friday, November 16, 2012 10:03 PM Eastern Standard Time
To: H
Subject: Fvv: WS3: Hillary and LibyaPls pull for me the speeches I and/or Bill gave about health care to any doctor group in the 90s.Pls print.Can we do in morning? What time works for you?Ok.Did you talk w Lisa about their house?I now have it. ThxCNN just said that the suspension was revoked and no comment from Washington yet. So we need to tell the story
w/out flourish.Pls put Dean Ornish on my call list and call to ask him if I can call him tonight. Thx.What is Mike Posner's address and numbers?Pis print.Boy, are they mad about our Ambassador!Pis share w Esther and Steinberg.I called him back and got vm. If he calls you again tonight or tomorrow, can you connect him to me?Ok w me
H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Monday, March 22, 2010 7:24 AM
'sullivanjj@state.gov'
Re: AIPACH <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Wednesday, February 10, 2010 2:35 PM
'sullivanjj@state.gov'Classified by DAS, A/GIS, DoS on 07/30/2015 — Class: CONFIDENTIAL
Re: Iran — Reason: 1.4(B), 1.4(D) — Declassify on: 02/10/2025
B5Ok--lets do Maggie. Maybe I could take her out to dinner.B5Pls print 3 copies.
H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Monday, May 17, 2010 5:52 AM
'JilotyLC@state.gov'
Fw: H: also... SidI've done it twice now.Have we made progress on the Expo?Would it be a good idea to pass out copies of the NYTimes Magazine issue on Half the Sky w my interview at the several
events we are doing re women's issues?The Canadian Amb is hosting dinner for PM on 9/16 and invited me. They say they haven't heard back. Pis regret.H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Wednesday, June 30, 2010 12:00 PM
'hanleymr@state.gov'
Fw: confidential
FyiCheryl told me the Libyans confirmed his death. Should we announce tonight or wait until morning?
U.S. Department of State
Case No. F-2015-04841
Doc No. C05739897
Date: 05/13/2015
STATE DEPT. - PRODUCED TO HOUSE SELECT BENGHAZI COMM.
SUBJECT TO AGREEMENT ON SENSITIVE INFORMATION & REDACTIONS. NO FOIA WAIVER. STATE-5CB0045229Pls add Kris to may call list and draft note to him.1.4(D)
B1See if I can stay and see Jones or if he'd rather wait until I come back.Ok. Thx.I need to call Karzai, Shaun Woodward and then Robinson and McGinness and, now maybe, Kouchner. But I don't want
to do until later today or tomorrow. Do I have time tomorrow? I will need to allocate 30 minutes to Karzai.Ok. Jake--pls send me the usual memo so I can be prepared.PIs call me at home thru Ops.Pls print.
H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Monday, February 1, 2010 8:50 AM
'JilotyLC@state.gov'
Re: H: early review. SidI'm trying to call the FM now.When can I make the Karzai call?Find out if either Jack Lew or Pat Kennedy wants to go.H <hrod17@clintonemail.com >
Sunday, December 13, 2009 2:23 PM
'ValmoroU@state.gov'
Fw: Hello/FYI/Invite
What are the hours of the Obama party on the 21st? Can I make it to Tamera's too?H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Monday, January 18, 2010 8:58 AM
'valenzuelaaa@state.gov'; 'KellyC@state.gov'
Venezuelafor Haiti, Lugar says
Let's discuss today.Davis w over 60 Percent
Pls add to call list.Thanks for the running commentary. I hope the stars are aligned despite the Baucus-Kennedy tensions. So pis keep the
info flowing.
B6
I will not be in DC June 20 for the BIG 10 year milestone, but congrats to you and All the best, H B6Did he ask to speak to me? I didn't reach out to him but I'm willing to talk once I get points. Is Zelaya confirmed for
tomorrow? I didn't see him on schedule so did it just happen?— Declassify on: 05/02/2020
RELEASE IN PART
1.4(B),B1,B5,1.4(D),B6So put him on agenda before Jack to do overview of issues or some other topic.Can you get me copy of article about McChrystal that is coming out?Kurt-
Hillary
H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Monday, November 30, 2009 11:25 AM
'CampbelIKM@state.gov'
Take careH <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Friday, November 6, 2009 5:14 PM
'sbwhoeop
Re: FYI: Charlie Rose
Ok. And, by the way, We'll celebrate in December.I had asked for a snapshot of statistics about Dept and AID--facts and figures. Can you have one for me this am so I can
see what else should be in it?Am I supposed to call in?Thanks.I agree w him and am on the call now.I also need infor for Maura.Do you have Jack's notes for the call?Lynn--
I would love to see you but your days overlap w Karzai's visit so I will have to get that settled before I can confirm a
time but let's make it happen. So I'm copying Lona and Huma so we can start planning. Much love, HOk--i should be free after 2. Pls email when you want to talk.Jim--Who have you designated to run the Resolution enforcement team out of State?Will you be in next week? I hope we can catch up.Can I see her for both either tomorrow night or Wed am?There is an Oct 16th George Marshall event at the Department. Do we have it on tentative calendar?
Have we scheduled a Sept event for all the groups doing econ and other work w Palestinians? Mara Rudman is working
on it for Mitchell.
Starting in Sept I want to have a weekly lunch/mtg w Steinberg and one w the undersecs. I also want to schedule for
early Sept, hour mtgs w each bureau to dscuss priorities.
When can I visit FSI?Thanks--see you next week.I need to see merncon for followup. He covered so many subjects and I didn't have time to respond so I will need to talk
w him again this weekend.I thought there was an event this Fall (maybe even honoring me?) But, did it not happen or did I not go? What
happened?Hi Tom--
H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Saturday, October 17, 2009 6:15 AM
Would love to talk today
What times would work for you today? I'm free before 9am and after 1 until 7pm. Tomorrow I'm free before noon. Pls
let me know what works best for your schedule. Looking forward to catching up. HRCI'm not doing this again.This looks fine and makes me sound like a techie (which is good, albeit a stretch).H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Sunday, May 31, 2009 3:05 PM
'ImuscatinE
Re: david herbert donald
Thx for telling me;Thx for all your help especially since I know it's hard helping Methodists!Thx. I have them all.Thx, Mike.Ok. Pis send to me when ready. Thx.Just heard on TV they may be released tomorrow since judge found they had no criminal intent. Do you know if that's
true?Anne-Marie sent me a memo yesterday about her conversation w Sarah Chayes but when it was sent to Huma for
printing It did not completely print but cut off after the first intro para. Can someone resend directly to me?Pis see the memcon for details.Cheryl--are you ok w it now? Can you talk?Not necessary. I'm just stopping by.Thx. You should get a copy of Ali's data base for our use.Yes--and Bill wanted to talk w you too. Can he do that after we finish?H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Tuesday, December 22, 2009 7:54 AM
'millscd@state.gov'
Re: voanews.com: Africa's Anti-Gay Laws Spark Accusations and Denials in US B6
Mira patel in sp told me she is already starting to do this. Do you want someone in drl.Are you getting ready to leave?Can you send me the language we prefer in a resolution?Here are a few odds and ends:
Since I'm going to the Bahrain Manama Conf in December, I want to decide where else I might go. The. climate conf in
Mexico will be held Nov 29-Dec 10. There is also a Dec 10 conf on trafficking in Luxor sponsored by Mrs. Mubarak that
Melanne hopes I could attend.
Add to list of meetings the following--
Ron Kirk
Hilda Solis
Walter Isaacson—high priority
Sandy Levin
Loretta Sanchez
Max Baucus
Eliot Engel
Ben Cardin wants me to come give a speech about the 35th anniversary of the Helsinki Accords on the Hill so I thought If
I'm going back to Helsinki for a speech about the Helinski Accords in July maybe I should do the Hill speech around that
time.
Also, Cheryl wants a staff retreat/meeting so what about May 14 or 28?
Did you get info about the Vietnam symposium the State historian, Carland, invited me to open on 9/29?
I want to plan to go to the Arctic Council in Greenland next April.
Did you find out when Cong Reyes's conf on border security was in August?Pls add to call list.H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Thursday, December 20 2012 1:52 PM
'sullivanjj@state.gov'
Fw: H: Libya, latest Benghazi intel. Sid
hrc memo libya, benghazi, oil 121012,docx
More info.I'm at home. Thx.H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Friday, August 7, 2009 2:34 PM
'reinesp@state.gov'
'sullivanjj@state.gov'
Re:
•Do you have an opinion about this?Pls add to List:
Bill Galston
Evan Bayh
Warren Buffet
Judith McHaleThx so much.I
Is he at your house this weekend?Holbrooke wants a long--2-3 hour mtg--and I want to do that on Friday. Pls confirm w him the time. We will do in the
ops center so if we want Eikenberry and Paterson on video, we can do. Let's get this nailed down so I can plan rest of
day.Pls print.Also I will not leave the office before 5:30.That's fine. Will it be printed in next day or so?For Claire, the special assistants and Joe?H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Friday, Janua 29, 2010 3:31 AM
'cheryl.mills ; 'millscd@state.gov'; Doug Band B6
Fw: Haiti
Fyi.Can you call my berry?I should visit to thank them Mon or Tues.Can you fax to me?Reason: 1.4(B), 1.4(D) — Declassify on: 04/23/2035
RELEASE IN PART
B1,1.4(B),1.4(D),B6Thanks and Happy Thanksgiving. I will call again over the next few days.You can call at 7.Ok. Can you pls call me thru ops?Pis print.
H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Thursday, October 8, 2009 8:01 PM
'JilotyLC@state.gov'
Fw: WHI - powder coating
B6OkWe also need to brief Rice.Thx.H <hrod17@clintonemail.com >
Tuesday, February 9, 2010 7:39 AM
'preines 'sullivanjj@state.gov' B6
Huma Abedin
'cheryl.mills
David Brooks
Took a shot at me in his column today. Any ideas what prompted it?H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Saturday, May 15, 2010 1:44 PM
'Burnswj@state.gov'
'sullivanjj@state.gov'
Lavrov
I assume you'll review the memcon.
As to Medvedev's Silicon Valley visit on June 23, we need to discuss and start planning asap. If you think it helpful, I will
go out to meet him.I agree--we should stick w principals. I thought everyone else was confirmed?
What was reaction to Raj?I can't stay awake any longer. See you in am.over. Sid
Let me know. Thx.US law. S
Agreed.Agreed.Any chance the date could B6
be changed?Pls print.Ellen--Pis print.Thanks, as always.First, when was he told I was coming--assuming I am?
Second, we should use some of our now free time to go over stuff on Friday. I need to do a long mtg w Holbrooke and
team sometime that day but, other than that, what time works for you. I'm at home if you want to talk.H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Saturday, January 30, 2010 8:58 AM
'millscd@state.gov.
Re: CVCH <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Sunday, November 29, 2009 11:38 AM
'sbwhoeop
Re: Another memo on backdrop to this week. Sid
Can you send me the Hoagland piece?Ok.Thx.That's gratifying. Now we just have to make the rebuilding work--no easy task.Pls print.
H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Wednesday, May 12, 2010 3:20 PM
'JilotyLC@state.gov'
Fw: The house where paint flowsStill nothing. Call Oscar if they need help. I'll be out of pocket for an hour or so.Pls regret.What about John Kerry--can he be included?H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Friday, November 13, 2009 6:59 AM
'JilotyLC@state.gov.
Fw: Admiral Platt
See if you can get a copy of the intro Navy Sec Ma bus gave me that's referred to below.Can you send to him or do you want me to? Does he know I can't look at it all day so he needs to contact me thru you or
Huma or Lauren during work hours.H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Tuesday, December 22, 2009 10:04 AM
B6
And, it was a pleasure working w you too!
Mike--
Thanks for your kind comments last night. And, now, all we have to do is deliver on what we wrought. I look forward
to following up w you on next steps. Until then, happiest of holidays and here's to a new year w lower emissions, higher
transparency and more sleep! Best, Hillarymay still be out of country. Other names:
If we can't get anyone of stature, then I think it should be
drivers w lots of outside help.
Also, when will I receive next draft of speech?Were you able to correct the record on our travel?B6
U.S. Department of State
Case No. F-2015-04841
Doc No. C05739885
Date: 05/13/2015
STATE DEPT. - PRODUCED TO HOUSE SELECT BENGHAZI COMM.
SUBJECT TO AGREEMENT ON SENSITIVE INFORMATION & REDACTIONS. NO FOIA WAIVER.
RELEASE IN
PART B6See Youi here.OkI'm seeing Santa at 8:30 so won't take off until closer to 9:30. Is that ok?Can you talk tomorrow before 10:30 am?Ok but will need call sheet and update from Burns/Steinberg.H <hrod17@clintonernail.com>
Tuesday, September 11, 2012 5:50 AM
Huma Aleedin B6
Request
Can you get us a copy of Bernard Henri-Levi's film about Libya? I think Harvey made it and showed it at Cannes last
spring.
U.S. Department of State
Case No. F-2015-04841
Doc No. C05739894
Date: 05/13/2015
STATE DEPT. - PRODUCED TO HOUSE SELECT BENGHAZI COMM.
SUBJECT TO AGREEMENT ON SENSITIVE INFORMATION & REDACTIONS. NO FOIA WAIVER. STATE-5CB0045227Melanne--Your travels bring back so many wonderful memories of all we've done together over the last 17 years. When
we are both back, we need to find time for discussing the projects--like cook stoves--that we want to do or facilitate.
Until then, safe travels. HYes--call my berry or the black phone in my room.Ok
•Will you be on it?H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Saturday, August 22, 2009 6:32 PM
Re: Brooke Memorial Fellowship in India
Strobe-- Congratulations
I call you tomorrow morning around 10? If so, what # should I call? HNora--Pis tell Cheryl to call me back on my berry # which Ops has. Thx.H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Saturday, March 6, 2010 11:00 AM
'preines
Re: Reminder: WaPo Call re Bob Barnett
Was that ok? Can you give transcript to Bob?Ok. Thx. See you in DC.How late could I come tomorrow if you were able to move things? I would like to take the 11 or B6
12 shuttle or even later if possible.I may see the POTUS Wed afternoon or evening per my conversation w him today. He's checking his schedule. Can you
reach out to WH?
People I saw at funeral who I want to see or who want to see me--
Randy Weingarten--reschedule dinner w her and Hillary Rosen
Dianne Feinstein--put her on my call list
Do you know about a conference that Schwarzenegger said he invited me to in CA in late Sept or Oct about the
environment?Have I written the family a condolence letter?You should also get Bill and/or Farmer to call. Should we get any Congress Member to call? If so, who?Pls print.Judith HopeThey're ok to go.Are you up, I'd like a readout of the calls. I also have some other ideas.Can you fax to my DC house? If not, can you talk it thru w me now?FyiThanks so much. As to visuals, will we have handouts or power point on screen?Ok.Another report--
SOURCE: Sources with direct access to the Libyan National Transitional Council, as well as the highest levels of
European Governments, and Western Intelligence and security services.
1. As of the morning of July 6, an individual with access to the information stated in confidence that Libyan National
Transitional Council (NTC) President Mustafa Abdel Jalil remains committed to a transfer of power to a popularly elected
government; however, he is prepared to ex-tend the life of the NTC as a guarantor of stability for the Libyan people
following the July 7, 2012 election for seats in a 200-member General National Congress (GNC). Jaifi realizes that 2.7
million Libyans have registered to vote and are generally anxious to replace the increasingly unpopular NTC. That said,
JAI expects the voting to lead to a period of confusion and he will not abandon his authority until the results are fixed.
2. Jalil is also frustrated by the fact that during its eight-month tenure of the administration of Prime Minister Abclel
Rahman el-Keib - who was appointed by the NTC was unable to provide solutions for Libya's long list of needs: a
functioning justice system, a reconciliation process for officials who served the old administration, the disarming of
militia, building functional national security forces, rebuilding destroyed areas, and delivering basic services such as
healthcare.
3. At the same time, outside of the oil sector, much of Libya's economy is stagnant, and in the opinion of Western
security officials, lacks the government's go-ahead to restart public sector infrastructure contracts. In addition,
international advisers and foreign investors are reluctant to return to an environment where the government will not
sign long term agreements and cannot guarantee security.
4.(Source Comment: According to an extremely sensitive source, Jalil continues to believe that this chaotic situation
should not be surprising. He regularly points out that eight months is not a sufficient amount of time to build functioning
institutions from the remnants of the regime of former dictator Muammar al Qaddafi. The old regime featured a
dysfunctional bureaucracy, idiosyncratic rule, and anti-institutionalism. Additionally, Jaill now re
Ializes that due to
pronounced incompetence and a lack of will to take unpopular decisions the el-Keib government also failed to make
progress in the few areas where it could have achieved meaningful change. The towns of Sirte and Tawargha are
representative of the situation in the countryside where people lost their homes in the conflict and have been living in
temporary camps with limited ability to register and vote in their home district. Jalil has been urged by contacts in the
French and Italian Governments to guarantee the rights of people across the country in particular, he has serious
concerns as to whether or not supporters of former dictator Muammar al Qaddafi in his hometown of Sirte will be
included in the future political processes of the new Libya; if they are not allowed to vote by local militiamen. At the
same time, the fighting between Libyan Arabs and Tebta tribesmen in the Kufra area threatens to prevent any voting
there. Jalil has been warned that the NTC regulations now state that members of the National Army are not allowed to
vote or run for office, which is a disincentive for armed militia brigade members to become legitimate soldiers.)
5.This well informed individual believes that despite these flaws, the new government created by the July 7 election will
eventually have the mandate to take the difficult decisions that can create a reconciliation process. Jalil will work to
maintain order in this transition period, and finally reach his goal of creating a situation where the government can
rebuild homes and restore sufficient law and order; allowing those in Sirte, Tawargha, Kufra, and throughout the rest of
the country to live in their hometowns, establishing a situation where a true civil society can develop.
U.S. Department of State
Case No. F-2015-04841
Doc No. C05739882
Date: 05/13/2015
STATE DEPT. - PRODUCED TO HOUSE SELECT BENGHAZI COMM.
SUBJECT TO AGREEMENT ON SENSITIVE INFORMATION & REDACTIONS. NO FOIA WAIVER. STATE-SCB0045193
U.S. Department of State
Case No. F-2015-04841
Doc No. C05739882
Date: 05/13/2015
STATE DEPT. - PRODUCED TO HOUSE SELECT BENGHAZI COMM.
SUBJECT TO AGREEMENT ON SENSITIVE INFORMATION & REDACTIONS. NO FOIA WAIVER.
6. Jail!, in conversations with the leaders of the Muslim Brotherhood (MB), and separately with liberal leader Ali
Tarhouni, has acknowledged that the central government's top priority must be security and that the NTC has been
unable to provide it. That said, Jail! and Minister of Defense Ousarna alefuwali have pledged to provide 30,000 to 40,000
security personnel for election day to prevent similar incidents to the July 1 attack on Benghazi's election headquarters.
In that case eastern federalists entered the building, where ballot papers were burned and ballot boxes destroyed.
Similarly, these federalist forces are suspected of the attack on July 5 that burned down Ajdabiya's main storage centre
for election materials.
7. In the opinion of this individual, although those responsible for the Benghazi attack were pro-federalist, it has not
been proven that they were members of the self-appointed Cyrenaican National Council (MC), whose military arm set
up a roadblock in Wadi al-Ahmar on Libya's major east-west highway to demand that Cyrenaica get as many seats in the
GNC as Tripolitania. Thus far, neither the CNC nor any other group has publicly stated that they intend to use violence to
disrupt the elections. (Note: Under the current system Tripolitania will have 120 seats in the GNC, Cyrenaica (Barge) 62,
and Fezzan in the South 18.)
U.S. Department of State
Case No. F-2015-04841
Doc No. C05739882
Date: 05/13/2015
STATE DEPT. - PRODUCED TO HOUSE SELECT BENGHAZI COMM.
SUBJECT TO AGREEMENT ON SENSITIVE INFORMATION & REDACTIONS. NO FOIA WAIVER. STATE-SCB0045194Pls print.When I was at UNGA, I had foreign leader facebooks that I would like to see. Can you find for me?Anything else going on?Miguel--
H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Saturday, November 7, 2009 2:38 PM
'rodriguezme@state.gov'
Huma Abed in
Health care cvalls
I received your info about Mike Ross but I need the info about Berry and Carney before calling them.
Thx.You did a fabulous job and everybody knew this would not have succeeded w/out your leadership. Onward.I agree. Can you talk--i have a matter of some urgency.I've worked on this non-stop since yesterday am. Let's discuss at meeting today.That is a huge group. There is no way to make them all feel important and listened to. Should we split group in half and
have two lunches?I agree that this is a great idea and want to pursue. Thx.Let's discuss.What # did you use to reach him today?Bill wants to go to church at 10:15 so can we do btw 12 and 7 ?Michele,
I look forward to getting together to discuss a number of issues. Thanks for following up w Jackie Newmyer. Her email:
All the best, HillaryThat's good news but at variance w what the press reported.Reaction?
H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Friday, February 5, 2010 7:13 AM
'sullivanjj@state.gov'
Fw: Bravo! Brava! Issue your statement! SidH <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Saturday, February 13, 2010 11:40 AM
'sbwhoeop
Re:
Ok.What's that about?H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Monday, March 22, 2010 8:47 AM
'sullivanjj@state.gov'; 'preines
Health care topperI tried you back. Don't know why I didn't heard the phone--I've been on it all am. Can you talk now??Is there a telepromter I can use tomorrow?Who will interview me?H <hrod17@clintonemail.com >
Saturday, February 13, 2010 10:31 AM
'cb B6
Re: Get well soon
Who is and doing what?I heard on the radio that there is a Cabinet mtg this am. Is there? Can I go? If not, who are we sending?I think Lona already confirmed swearing in for Monday. I'd also be happy to see him then too. Huma will check.I already talked w Megan about changes.Yes. And Oscar is here now.I have to meet w Baucus after the recess on trade issues
April 28--I want to meet w the Belgian FM
Did we ever get a date for Mort Zuckerman dinner for the Wiesels?
I'd like to meet w:
Phil Goldberg
Jackie Novogartz
I'd like to see Missy Kincaid when she and her family are here June 27-July 8.Could I do in the 12:30-1:45 window while driving into the city?H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Tuesday, June 30, 2009 5:59 PM
'bam@mikulski.senate.gov'
Re: Sorry to hear
Barb--Thanks, my dear friend, for your good wishes.
Let's try again for dinner soon. Happy 4th!! All the best, HillaryH <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Wednesday, December 2, 2009 7:03 AM
'ValmoroU@state.gov'; Huma Abedin
concert
has a concert at his school tonight at 7. Can I get there?Do we have good answers for the Blackwater allegations? What exactly are they? And what's been said before?I'm delighted you're recharging so pis take whatever time you need/want. Fish for positive thoughts!!I will talk w him anytime. I'm on way to Memorial Day parade but will obviously step out to talk.Just landed. Let me know if you want to talk tonight.Sure--I'll call him now.Ok. I can also talk after the Lavrov call.Dennis Ross is coming to see me at noon.And well-deserved. You're a rock star!Sounds right to me.I'm copying Rob so a note can be prepared.L
B6H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Saturday, December 12, 2009 12:37 PM
Re: Could we schedule a call?
To
Is 9am ok w you? HI just got back and will be up for awhile.I just talked to her. She asked if we'd been "invited" to funeral. Have we?Pls add:
Mort Zuckerman
Ed TownsAnything I need to know?Have you made progress?I'm upstairs at mtg and will meet you in room.Anything elser I need to know?What's the latest?— Declassify on: 04/23/2035Sid--
I'm copying Doug and Justin who are travelling w Bill since he will be in Europe and may have some ideas about what
could be done, and asking that they share it w him and then get back to you. If I have any other ideas I will let you know.RELEASE IN PART B6
OkPls print.
H <hrod17@clintonemail.corn>
Friday, January 22, 2010 6:14 AM
'JilotyLC@state.gov'
Fw: H: early review. SidB6
Let's do Tues evening. Do you know when I can see Maryann?At beginning. Will there be a camera spray?Does this mean Bill should not plan on going and we just wait for the public memorial service?Pls print.
H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Tuesday, May 25, 2010 4:34 PM
'JilotyLC@state.gov.
Fw: HRC University. A quick thoughtLater--how about 10? That way I can leave the house around 9.What's the reason from Lippert?Thx.Let's do Patsy. I'm ready.Ok to all.I want to debrief you on my call w Davutogla and discuss strategy. Pis try to read the memcon before we meet. Thx.When and where is the next AGOA Conference?
Sometime in June I want to schedule the following meeting for an hour w top leadership:
Consular AffairsAlbright wants me to attend NATO seminar here in DC around Feb 20-22. I'd like to do that if possible.Ok.Nope.Thanks for your concern I'm on the way to Qatar and Saudi
Arabia. I will see the Sheikha in Doha and learn more about her work. I hope to see you soon for a catchup visit. All the
best.Sounds good.I just landed from NY. The ppt looks good to me. I have a few questions I will discuss w you tomorrow.PIs add the following:
Paul Charron about Haiti
Mickey and Heidi Kantor
John Kao
Do letter of thanks to
Gen Kean who was commander in HaitiH <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Saturday, January 2, 2010 6:08 AM
'stalbott
Re: message from India -- and from down the street
Strobe---Happy New Year! Namiste! All good wishes for 2010. Thx so much for the message from four generations of
Talbotts and Ramesh--quite a combo. When I see ou next ho efull soon I will ive ou the back rou
re/interactions w him
uc ove to you an t e c an, Hillary
P.S. Can you confirm my email address thru this--i don't want you wandering around cyberspace!Jack said you had told him I could call the POTUS tonight about the budget. Did you reach out to the White House about
the call?Good on all counts! Are you at a Super Bowl party?H <hrod17@clintonemail.com >
Sunday, Jul26, 2009 7:53 AM
'preine
Re: Questions
Thx. I meant budget question to refer to overall budget. Can you get that for me?I will call you later.Ok.
- --OkAdd to call list. I called and left message at home # but I should try again.I assume he's avoiding the call. I hope Ellen is going anyway and that she will chase Antonov to Moscow if necessary.
What more can we do?Can you pls bring w you today two clean copies of the startegy memo you, Cheryl, Sandy and Derek worked on so I could
talk w you about today and plan a conf call to discuss tomorrow. Thx.
Also, Tom Donilon told me there would be a dinner Thursday night w Kissinger, Scocroft, Zakaria, Brezinski and principals
and that he wouldn't me to frame and lead off. So we have to get the ducks lined up.Pls print.Also, pls call when you can, I have a few questions.Ok. But i'll need hair and makeup touch up. Will you askI do not think I'm supposed to be here. I don't see another FM. Can you check?Either she or Huma does.Who wrote it?Will this decision be an issue for us in Germany?
Also, I heard a rumor that Phil Murphy was called in by Merkel over this? Is that true?
See you tomorrow to discuss. Thx.
lThat is s000 nice. They're both such good folks.Very interesting.OkPls print.
--Can you send me a call sheet for Bloomberg?Are you back?Ok. Is Raj coming tonight?Pls print.
H <hrod17@clintonemail.com >
Friday, November 6, 2009 7:25 AM
'JilotyLC@state.gov'
Fw: also, I may never have mentioned...I spoke w him earlier. Thx.Mark posted several postings on HuffPost from Haiti. Pls print them all for me. Thx.Call and I can explain.I think it.is important at least to put in ranges of proposed budget #s. Is that possible?Worrying. Pls distribute and request feedback from Jeff, Cretz, et al.Arturo--
Huma forwarded your email and I agree with your plans to visit Bolivia and for us to talk w Sen, Menendez. We should
discuss how best to do that after your return later this week. Safe travels--HH <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Saturday, August 15, 2009 10:07 AM
Re: AAR
Do you know what Jeannine (Bloomberg) said on Washington Week last night?Thanks for this very clear and fair analysis of the NSS. As you know so well, it's always easier said than done. Happy
Holiday to you and Susan, Let's visit soon. All best, HH <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Saturday, May 29, 2010 10:25 AM
'millscd@state.gov'
Re is monday better? B6
B6
Monday is good too if better for you.Will the DCA team be in Columbia in early August? I thought we had set that up but heard today they might not get
there until September. What's the plan?H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Thursday, November 12, 2009 9:42 AM
'sbwhoeop
Re: FYI: Murdoch makes his move to Cameron. Attack on BBC to follow. Sid
That's quite the match--Murdochs v Mandelson.Pis print.
H <hrod17@clintonemail.com›
Sunday, September 23, 2012 10.36 PM
'hanieymr@state.gov`
Fw: ThanksAsk ops to call me when the call is ready.I am and would like to talk before 8 if you can. Thx.The Jill Dougherty report was much better than the lead in so maybe there is a chance.Ok. Pls call me then.Yes.Pls print attachment.Pls do note to Kristin Kane and give me back copy of her email.Is this the number you got?Do we have date yet? I thought we did but apparently that's not been confirmed w Qataris. Pls let me know so I can
respond to Cherie.Pls print for me.This doesn't sound like there's anything for me to do but pls keep me informed.Same as Isabelle—just hands.I'm reviewing all of the edits you forwarded and will incorporate many. Jim Kennedy, as always, was fabulous. I should
have my revision ready tomorrow. Thx.I'm more worried about whether Amb CM behaved! I told her no table-dancing or karoake singing. How'd she do? It's a
great idea and Chicago was the perfect place to start. Has spring finally come or are you still covering plants and
worrying about the frost? I'll try calling later for an update. xxooH <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Wednesday, February 10, 2010 1:17 PM
'preines
Re: FLOTUS re XFLOTUS
That's so nice.Sorry I hit send too soon!Lona--pls tell Jeff Feltman, that Sheika Mouza could not come to DC in June or July but can come as stated below in Sept.
Ask if he thinks we should try to meet her in Europe earlier or wait until then. Thx.I have it,
---- Or" inal Message ---We should do.The FM just told me that Arturo had been there yesterday and had insulted their country. He was very upset and said I
needed to do damage control. Can you figure out what he's talking about? Thx.Could we move to 8:30?H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Sunday, March 21, 2010 3:55 PM
Valenzuelaaa@state.gov.
'sullivanjj@state.gov'
letterCan I see Mitchell at 12 instead of 12:30? Also, what happened to McCrystal mtg?Ok. Thx.So, what do we do now?I'd like to set up a secure call sometime over the weekend or before I leave on Thursday.Is that going public? Is it posted on our website?Am sending to Lona to work out time.What is his email?
CIf DeMint is going, can we encourage a few others to go at same time to present more balanced picture to defactos? Is
DeMint using mil air? If so, we can add Members.the Media.docx; 102809-BM-Democracy Assistance Dialogue.docx; 102809-BM-
Foundation for the Future.doc; 102809-BM-Gender Institute.doc
Megan and Jake--Pls see the info from Melanne about the gender issues in the Forum. I'd like to include reference to
work and way forward in my speech tomorrow. Thx.This whole issue makes me sick. Why we
also worry that, despite porotestations, State is too passive and accepting. The answer is
I have some ideas about this to explore.
is an open sore. I B5I have read it and agree it is must reading for all of us. Thx.When is Steinberg call?Can we reschedule the dinner if I can't do the 24th?Kris-- can you follow up on these issues and let me know so we can report back? Thx.
Steve Schwarzman at Blackstone wanted help on a visa for and said Mickey Kantor was B3
talking to Cheryl about it. What's status? INA
David Cote of Honeywell wanted help w _ _ _ _ .... . He also B4
complained about export control regs that interfere w sales. He said the State Dept is the holdup and gave example of
nuts and bolts for an engine being labelled as "dual use and therefore couldn't be exported. Andrew may know about
this.Rwwwwqs7sullivanij@state.gov B6
Thanks for all your hard work on this difficult speech to get it as right as possible. Here are a few comments and
questions:
We need to work in reference and quotes from POTUS Nobel speech near the top. I haven't read it yet so not sure
what's most appriopriate. Since the speech alluded to some of the same ground, should we be explicit in asserting that
this speech further clarifies/expands/explains what this Admin means by human rights?
The points about us not being perfect and the existence of evil in the POTUS speech should be woven in more here
too. For example, in discussion on p.7 about Japanese internment, etc.
In the section about supporting individual defenders, should mention that we did that thru State Dept ceremony
honoring brave women and applaud others like Vital Voices and RFK memorial who do same. Tell story about how I was
asked to mention the name of a Guatemala activist in my sppech to the parliament there because the attention might
literally save her life.
Look forward to further discussion later today.Remind me who Bob McGuire is.What is Donna's it?Who? I thought Eikenberry.I hope the bilateral meetings will be across a table and not in chairs. Can that happen?No--pis go today. I told her that! was sorry I couldn't be there but want you both to go ahead today and just call/email
to tell me what's happeningI gave them to Jake.Pls prepare condolence letter to Justice RBG for loss of her husband, Martin.Pis add:
Marsha Lauffer --but I think she's moved to Florida so ask KPK if she has another #
Stephanie Minor and Jack Mannion; she's the new mayor of Syracuse
Sen. Kit Bond to discuss his book The Next Front
Paul Farmer
Add Sec Ken Salazar--note the Arctic
Jon Bon Jovi--TY
Jo Luck
Cong. Dianne Watson
Kirsten Gillibrand--cybersecurity
Marvin Hammlisch
Martha Stewart
Robert Hunter--omit from the end and move up
Sec Sebelius
Ed Koch
Dorothy Height
Pls remove from list the following:
Thomases
Corzine
Engel
Kenney
Newsom
Webb
Allida Black
Chavez
Schneider
Mutombo
Loida Lewis
Winifred Greene
Also, we have to decide what to do w the "Fan Club" and tell Ruth Love and Rosemary. Should we invite them to lunch?
Also, whatever happened wPls print.H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Monday, May 4, 2009 4:08 PM
'Jake.Sulliva
Re: Kazakhstan ii at
Ok w me. India raised issues that this doesn't.Pls print for me.(I didn't finish!) And so would you pls contact the Swedes to discuss such a mtg? Thx.Pls print.H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Tuesday, March 9, 2010 7:56 AM
'sullivanjj@state.gov'
Re: Libya
Talk w PJ and Jeff before staff mtg and work out appropriate language.H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Friday, August 7, 2009 2:35 PM
'reinesp@state.gov'
'sullivanjj@state.gov'
Re:I was just told your number was not in service!? Pls call me at home in DC.
RELEASE IN PART
B6He's standing right inside the door here.I am now.Pis print--one copy to Jake, one to me.Did you see the article by him attributed to the NYTimes Magazine. Did it run in the paper version?Maggie--I can't pull up the data. Can you give me the highlights? Thx.I thought it was supposed to be off hook to work?Should we wait until you send me the cleaned up version?If we can stop in Bahrain, I'd like to but what would schedule be?I thought we cancelled the management mtg? Also, did you tell Sarah F I might not get there until 10:30?Pls read the article so we can discuss whether we need to take any action.The Service still has me leaving at 6am tomorrow. Is that right?Also I have meeting w POTUS and WH dinner and need to work w Jake on our year end summary report and much else.Lona---Could we be ready to do on or before 12/18? I'm reluctant to schedule for early Jan. Also if we did in Dec, would
coincide w Copenhagen.What did you think of the photo and article?Pis add to call list to discuss Iraq election monitoring-- Karla RubingerWhat's his first name?Harold--
I spoke w Sec. Gates and Gen. Jones about DOD invoking the SOFA for Col. Romano
Thanks for your help on this---Hillaryam today
Ok. But I saw in briefing that I was supposed to take questions at this Council of Americas--where did that come from?
And am I committed?Same to you--Happy Easter!Ok. Is Kristy in town? If so, can I see her tomorrow?Pls read and respond to me. This is very concerning.Dear Bill and Tom,
I'm sorry that I cannot be on the Hill today as we had long planned, but very grateful that you both will be. The
Department and I appreciate your leadership everyday.
So, I'll be nursing my cracked head and cheering you on as you "remain calm and carry on"!
Happy Holidays--H
U.S. Department of State
Case No. F-2015-04841
Doc No. C05739849
Date: 05/13/2015
STATE DEPT. - PRODUCED TO HOUSE SELECT BENGHAZI COMM.
SUBJECT TO AGREEMENT ON SENSITIVE INFORMATION & REDACTIONS. NO FOIA WAIVER. STATE-SCB0045832I am nearly done w my editing (along w Bill's). Pls send me all the commerts you just listed so I can review.In thinking about the Kissinger interview, the only issue I think that might be raised is that I see POTUS at least once a
week while K saw Nixon everyday. Of course, if I were dealing w that POTUS I'd probably camp in his office to prevent
him from doing something problematic. Do you see this as a problem?Also, I think it would be better for Karl to prepare a very specific budget/spending plan working w S/RAP rather than
protesting so we could see specifically what, if any, spendable gaps exist.
And a very happy, healthy new year to you and yours!Can you call me?H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Saturday, August 1,2009 11:55 AM
'David_Garten@lautenberg.senate.gov'
Re: Small World
David--Great hearing from and delighted you got to meet
experience. Hope you're relishing yours as well. All the best. HLet Jim know about Lavrov and I can't talk w Feingold now. What about tomorrow morning?That is really cool to share the list w you and a nice recognition of our year's work. Onward!What about asking VMI to move to another day--is that out of the question?Can they do it at 10?I'm up and at 'em if you need to talk.Of course. I will send a letter and welcome you,
I'm copying Rob Russo so he can work w you to draft the letter.
This is very exciting.
to DC. The closer the better!Pls print.Yes.H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Sunday, July 26, 2009 12:41 PM
'abedinh@state.gov'
Re: for HRCPls keep the updates coming!I'm trying but so far no luck. Will let you know.Would you pls call my berry so I know the ringer works?Is there a reason I don't mention the need for the UN to have more women at higher levels?Am I supposed to call her tomorrow?Henriette Kolb
RELEASE IN
PART B6I thought we did already.I may need to stay until Friday to finish up some stuff. Can you book the shuttle for around 1-2pm?
Also, what's status w Jones mtg?I'd like to see Molho and Laurene.
.... . .. ._..
From Valmoro, Lona 3 {mailto:ValmoroU@state.gov]
Sent: Sunday, November 25, 2012 07:48 AM Eastern Standard Time
To: H
Cc: Abedin, Hume <AbedinH©state.gov›; Huma Abedin; Valmoro, Lona 3 <Valmoroli@state,gov>
Subject: Schedule
MS, please find below tomorrow's final draft. Two items to mention — David Hale may ask you to see Issac
Molho, he is likely in town tomorrow. Secondly, Laurerie Jobs has asked to see you on Monday or
Tuesday. She has just returned from overseas travel and would like to check in Thank you -- Lona
8:25 am DEPART Private Residence
En route State Department
[drive time: 10 minutes]
8:35 am ARRIVE State Department
8:35 am PRESIDENTIAL DAILY BRIEFING
8:40 am Secretary's Office
8:45 am DAILY SENIOR STAFF MEETING
9.15 am Secretary's Conference Room
9:15 am MONDAY MEETING w/ASSISTANT SECRETARIES
10:00 am Principals Conference Room 7516
10:00 am PHOTOS
10:15 am Treaty Room
Staff: Claire
70, Floor "Blue Coats and Families
Joel Wiegert and Family, departing E Staff
- Heidi Crebo-Rediker and Family
10:15 am OFFICE TIME
2:00 pm Secretary's Office
2:00 pm PHOTOS
2:15 pm Treaty Room
Staff. Claire
- Webster University, DC Region (14 people)
- 7th Floor "Blue Coats' and Families
2:25 pm DEPART State Department
En route White House
U.S. Department of State
Case No. F-2015-04841
Doc No. C05739834 STATE DEPT. - PRODUCED TO HOUSE SELECT BENGHAZI COMM.
Date: 05/13/2015 SUBJECT TO AGREEMENT ON SENSITIVE INFORMATION & REDACTIONS. NO FOIA WAIVER. STATE-SCB0045808
U.S. Department of State
Case No. F-2015-04841
Doc No. C05739834
Date: 05/13/2015
STATE DEPT. - PRODUCED TO HOUSE SELECT BENGHAZI COMM.
SUBJECT TO AGREEMENT ON SENSITIVE INFORMATION & REDACTIONS. NO FOIA WAIVER.
[drive time: 5 minutes]
2:30 pm ARRIVE White House
2:35 pm B5
3:20 pm White House Situation Room
Contact: Caroline Krency Office 202-456-6317, B6
CLOSED PRESS
Note: U/S Pat Kennedy to attend as plus one for State.
3:25 pm DEPART White House
En route State Department
[drive time: 5 minutes],
3:30 pm ARRIVE State Department
3:30 pm OFFICE TIME
6:00 pm Secretary's Office
6:00 pm DEPART State Department
En route Private Residence
[drive time: 10 minutes]
6:10 pm ARRIVE Private Residence
HRC RON Washington, DC
WJC RON Chappaqua, NY
Weather:
Washington, DC: Mostly sunny, 54/39.
Lona Vairrinre
Special Assistant to Secretary Hillary Rodham Clinton
(202) 647-9071 (direct)
U.S. Department of State
Case No. F-2015-04841
Doc No. C05739834
Date: 05/13/2015
STATE DEPT. - PRODUCED TO HOUSE SELECT BENGHAZI COMM.
SUBJECT TO AGREEMENT ON SENSITIVE INFORMATION & REDACTIONS. NO FOIA WAIVER. STATE-SCB0045809According to WPost and Pi, US govt warned Israel about handling the flotilla.Ok. Does Eikenberry need to be secure?joining?
No but who's on it?I'm up and would like to talk about this, RCH and other stuff.H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Sunday, August 2, 2009 6:16 PM
Kuwait
Tom--Jeff Feltmann will call to disuss issue w Puneet. Thx.On next draft, and I hope last, which incorporates all these changes, I will make line edits.Besides the invite to coffee?Sounds good.Megan Rooney)
Are you ok w it? Can we claim more leadership for you, me and State?Pls print.I'm free until 6. Email before you call so I can be sure to connect w you.Pis print for me.Can you call me?Also, did you set up a time for him to see me when he's in DC?Pis get list from Thursday dinner and do TYs. I'd like to sign letters. Thx.Ok but I won't be able to do btw 4:30 and 6:30 so when can she do?Aren't I supposed to be there? Is it at 9 or 10?Pis lock in.How's it coming?Can we try to change the Sri Lanka call and reschedule Stephens and postpone until later the Angolans so I can go to
speech?•Take off--
Bendheim
Destito
Latham
Suozzi
Brian RobertsOk to set up call. What's his first name?H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Monday, January 18, 2010 10:00 AM
'KellyC@state.gov'
Re: VenezuelaI'm trying to call him thru ops but haven't reacherd him yet.How do you suggest we respond?I tried calling.Were these added?Pls cancel the 8am but what are the times later and are any of them the large planes instead of the new littler ones?H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Thursday, April 23, 2009 6:44 AM
'Jake.Sullivar
TestimonyGood. Let's document all of this.Can I call you?B6That's the result of your leadership and a new model of engagement w our own people. Onward!Good catch, Jeff! Yes--two issues. There will be a contact group about Guinea that the French want us to be strong on
too. Sorry for the confusion.I am trying to organize all of my notes and need a list of the dates and times of all my mtgs and events. Unfortunately
the cards on which I take my notes do not have dates and times which they usually do (and I would like them always to
include). Can you send to me?I can't pull up the whole email but assume it is fine to go. Any other news? We can talk later if needed.PIs add to call list.More info.
From Sidney Blumenthal [mailto
Sent: Monday, October 01, 2012 03:47 PM
To: H
Subject: Re: Romney s last gambit. Got done arid published. Sid
Romney has an op-ed in today's Wall Street Journal playing off Stevens' murder to say Obama has put
"security at risk," etc.
According to Politico yesterday, there was an internal argument within the Romney campaign over
Libya. Obviously, the neocons and the Rove oriented faction (Ed Gillespie, Rove's surrogate is now a
Romney campaign adviser) beat Stuart Stevens.
Romney is careening from tactic to tactic, hoping something will catch.
I wouldn't be surprised to see Romney raise the specter of the Muslim Brotherhood in charge of Egypt
& Libya as a bogeyman. I have heard him do this within the last week.
B6You are so welcome!Also, pis add Gerry Ferraro to my call list.OkFYI--MMM told me she will lead a delegation to Malawi for the marriage on May lof one of the leading women activists
and the President and asked if we knew anyone who'd like to go. Pls let he know. Thx. April 24 engagement party in
PhillyCan we get each in asap for me to meet w?Pls help me update my berry w email addresses of key staff like Monica, Kris, etc.The cell # for her belongs to someone else according to the vm. Can you get the right cell #?Let's do conf call re this w Jack and whomever else you and he decide.TT (As prepared)--Thank you for all you did to make the speech yesterday so effective and powerful. We've gotten many
positive comments and laid a solid foundation for future action.
Please get caught up on sleep! All the best, HillaryWhat time is the plane tomorrow night?Just landed. Let's discuss this--and much else. Can you talk?Dear Chris--
I heard about the election law passing and the agreement about Kirkuk, which sound like positive steps forward.
Thanks to you and your team for all you did to support the Iraqis in these decisions. Kudos all around. Take care, HillaryH <hrod17@clintonemail.com >
Saturday, January 23, 2010 4:09 PM
'sbwhoeop
Re: H: FYI: Any foreign nation or leader with a front company becomes a "person" under
US law. S
Good for him. I wish he were 50 instead 90!PIs add as option.OkPis print for me.Also give a copy to EAP rep who will be at mtg.Rich---Thanks for all you did to make the past year a successful one, I hope you and your family will have a happy and
healthy new year. I'm looking forward to 2010!
Here's some questions and I'm copying Jake so he can help w the followup--
Right before I left, Kirsten Gillibrand called to discuss her cybersecurity bill. She wants to draft it so it favors State. I told
her we would connect her up w the right person who would call her to discuss in the new year. Who should that be in
your shop or elsewhere? Pis let me know so I can call and tell her.
When I was in Kabul, the Aga Khan told me he had given a "roadmap" to stability in Afghanistan and wanted me to see
it. That's all I know; can you track it down?I just got them.Which names did you put in? Maybe they didn't save. But I need a lot. Pls make a list and I will check and add if
necessary.
I'd like to set up call to Sonia Gandhi in next few days.YesI would like to sign off on this tomorrow when I can better review it. Is that ok?Thx. Tomorrow I will want you to go to my house and pick up something to send me overnight.That's great.March 9--I may need to host a small dinner for Pres. Preval, maybe at my house.
Zach Iscol's movie was accepted for the Tribeca Film Festival and will be shown btw dates in late April and early May.
Can we find out when?Sen. Kerry told me he would do all he could to get Raj confirmed, but he needs to meet him asap.12:45 would be better for Blair. What about Yang call?Pis print.
H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Monday, August 10, 2009 5:07 PM
'muscatinel@state.gov'
Fw: FYI.... FW: Secretary Clinton Must Focus on Cause of Congo ConflictPls print.Thx. I just spoke w George from the plane before landing oin Dublin and I agree. Safe travels.Ok.When am I scheduled to fly back?H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Saturday, October 10, 2009 5:16 PM
Checking in
I'm about to see --any messages? And have you heard the news about Gordon's eye? What does it mean?Both. Need to do statement asap.Glad that's over!Pls print.Jeff--When I spoke w him, he mentioned a cable that he thought threatened our support for the LAF. Do you know what
that is about?Importance: High
Pls read Brian's message and all the email traffic below. What can we do about this? Let me know if you have ideas. Thx.-
RELEASE IN PART B6
\I will be doing a press event at 8:30. Do you know if Gordon mentioned me? Can you find out? Is Shaun still coming
Monday? If so, I want to take you both out to dinner!Nothing is coming.Do we have any independent third opinion we can ask for advice?Do you know anything about this--from any angle?So, what's the latest? It sounds contradictory and when does AF have to decide? Shall we take the 1 or 2 shuttle?Thx. Pls keep me updated.Shall we wait until we make decisionsGetting it.For Asst. Sec. Bob Blake?PIs add to call list.PIs print.H <hrod17@clintonemail.com >
Sunday, October 25, 2009 11:57 AM
'millscd@state ov'
Re: - More When We Speak
B5
B6Ok.Pis print.
H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Tuesday, June 1, 2010 6:59 AM
'JilotyLC@state.gov.
Fw: UkraineRELEASE IN PART B6
I've heard that both the PM and the Finance Minister will resign next week. I'm copying Jon so he can tell Bill.Will you be in DC this week?H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Wednesday, January 20, 20108:36 PM
'sullivanjj@state.gov'
Re: MoralesI agree.Maggie---I hope all is well. Pls giver—My very best. Love, HillaryWhere are we lunching?I'm confused--will he be there in am? Can he be urged to reschedule whatever else he has and come? Also tell NSC we're
having this retreat and cannot do DCs, PCs or other WH mtgs that day.FyiRELEASE IN PART B6Can you talk?Can we set up a photo for the SRAP team when I see them?Can you check and see if I sent a letter to him this week? Thx.Bill--My husband cannot go w PM Putin in mid-April because of his schedule, but he would be very interested in doing
such events w the PM in the future. Will you pls pass on to the Russians? Thx. HRCPls find a copy of the movie "Pray the Devil Back to Hell" about the war in Liberia.
Add Gloria Steinem to my call list.
Pls find a copy of the new Mary Pipher book, "Seeking Peace: Chronicles of the Worst Buddhist in the World."Wow--that is worse than I know. We need a full court effort and should check out the author.Sounds good. We could do either dinner or lunch but would have to do next week if we hope it will influence/hype
speech.I don't have call sheets for Lobo or Equadoran. Can you send on my email.H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Wednesday, December 16, 2009 10:01 PM
'vermarr@state.gov'
Re: We have informed our cloakroom that we lift the hold on Shannon nomination
What took them so long? Did you promise your first born?Pls print.Pls print.
H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Wednesday, June 16, 2010 8:59 PM
'JilotyLC@state.gov.
Fw: confidentialAnyway to get attn about what I said about religion being used to subjugate women?
Just wondering?Can I take the 8pm Friday and the 8pm Sunday?
I hope we can talk about the long term schedule today.I will call in--probably 7:35.No in car on way to airport. Can you talk? Call my berry.Pis print.Ok. Anything else to discuss? Hope you get some sleep.Will I be called at 9:15?Thx.If I can come back I will.Can you ask WHA to work for times so I can fly up mid morning and return late afternoon. Could I see Frattini next day?
What seems best?In about 10 minutes.Yeah!! Can we get some good statistics and anecdotes to share w our sponsors, the press and the administration to tell
the story?pis print.
H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Thursday, October 8, 2009 7:15 AM
'JilotyLC@state.gov'
Fw: TroopsI can do it right now.
----Pis print.
H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Wednesday. September 19 2012 4:26 PM
Fw: Fwd: Andrew Sullivan with the Hillary loveCan you talk? I'll be home until 10:30 when I start driving to the Hamptons.Pls print up 10 copies of this for me to pass out at this morning's meetings.Do they know Ellen Tauscher has been working on this?H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Tuesday, September 29, 2009 7:08 AM
herieblair
Huma Abedin
Re: Sorry to miss you
I really enjoyed my time w our friend and hope we can work together on issues including your project on people w
disabilities. I'm copying Huma who was w me so we can do follow up.
Sorry I didn't see you and had only a few minutes w Tony at the Quartet mtg.
I may be in London later this month and will let you know if that happens. All the best.H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Saturday, December 26, 2009 1:16 PM
'abedinh@state.gov'
Re: (Reuters) Taliban Planned to Use Americans In Pakistan Attacks
B6Message received--thx.I'm talking w Jones next. If we can do Webb today even a short call, that would be good.ri-ux
B6
Thx for all of your help. And I'd love to talk soon. I'll start trying to find a time.Thx.I will definitely talk to Shaun
anytime after noon. Just let me know what works.Dear Anne-Marie,
I was just reading your two wonderful memos on 5/ P accomplishments and the QDDR.
I also want to thank you for a wonderful year of work, creativity, collaboration and progress. I know the start for all of us
was shaky, but we have hit our stride and you are such a valuable member of the team, a generator of ideas, a
conductor of talent and even a necessary nudge from time to time. Thank you for making this journey w me.
I will schedule the S/P visit and photo as soon as I can. Until we see one another next week, be well and take care
(please!)
All the best, HillaryI'm on the way back.H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Sunday, July 26, 2009 1:52 PM
'SBerger
Re:
Thx so much for all of your help.
•Ok. Also plsPls print.Ok. No need to rush it if you can't get info just tell me what day we would leave and return. Thx.Pls revise as follows--
Add
Mayor Tom Menino
Judith HopeFirst I heard of this.Pis set up appointment for Andy Young to come see me.Yes. Call me when you can. I'm free until 11:30.Thx.Pls print.Yes. Thx.H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Tuesday November 10 2009 1:50 PM
'gordonph@state.gov'; 'Daalder1H@state.gov'; 'sullivanjj@state.gov';
'ValmoroU@state.gov'
NATO report
Dear Madeleine,
Thank you for your letter report to me about the excellent work you are doing. All the outreach is reassuring the
Central and Eastern members. We face some hard choices ahead and should plan to meet in December to review. I will
be in Brussels for the NATO Ministerial the first week, so let's aim for a time after that.
All the best, HillaryI think I should spend the night of the 19th in Kabul before the conference there.I just saw Broder piece--did you write part about me?Ok.H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Thursday, April 22, 2010 5:56 PM
'millscd@state.gov'
'sullivanjj@state.gov'
Re: To Cheryl Mills: Rep. McGovern Letter to President Obama, DHS Secretary
Napolitano and Secretary of State ClintonPls give me hard copy of his memo tomorrow. Thx.the United Nations, at an Emergency Session of the Security Council, May 31, 2010
Are you back yet? If so, pls call me thru Ops.Let's do Uribe tonight.H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Thursday, October 15, 2009 7:28 PM
'pverveer
Re: Bravo!
Many miles to go, but thx so much. Will you be back next week?H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Sunday, September 6, 2009 1:29 PM
Re: Devin and I wandered into a corner of the health care debate on Saturday in the
Post....
Strobe--Thanks to you and Devin for speaking out so personally and persuasively about the end of life decisions which
will face us all. I hope the absurd "death panels" argument can be put to rest so people can have the peace of mind that
planning provides. Hope to talk again soon. Best, HWhat is status of his appt request for Simon Stringer?Agree about Why did leave? B6Can you find out for me how many countries require a run off election for their Presidents or Prime Ministers. Thx.Of course.I'm free and at home in DC if you want to call about the article, the Middle East and Bosnia.Pls find Jones and Donilon and give them each a copy. The three copies are in my red bag in a light blue SecState folder.
Pls tell them I have told Mitchell to go forward and would appreciate their support. Does that make sense?Cc:
H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Thursday, November 26, 2009 11:54 AM
'gordonph@state.gov'; 'SteinbergJB@state.gov'; 'HolbrookeRC@state.gov'
'sullivanjj@state.gov'; 'cheryl.mill
Dear Phil, Jim and Richard,
First, Happy Thanksgiving! I am making FM calls re Afghanistan which are going well and the memcons will describe the
specific responses for our followup, especially in Athens and Brussels.
Below is a memo from a concerned observer about the British feeling alienated from us.
/Let me know what you each think. Thx.
Consensus across the board in Britain—center, right, left—is that the Atlantic alliance—the special relationship—the
historic bond since World War II—is shattered. There is no dissenting voice, not one, and there are no illusions. Opinion
is unanimous. The bottom line is that the Obama administration's denigration of the UK is seen as the summation of the
Bush era.
Undoubtedly, you saw this week Minister of Defense Bob Ainsworth's public criticism of Obama's indecision and his
accusation that the president is indifferent and damaging to British interest. While Downing Street sought to ameliorate
his remarks with an oleaginous statement his view is simply what everyone—everyone—thinks. His clumsy outburst was
a classic gaffe—an embarrassing mistake because it reveals something true.
The Chilcot inquiry of Parliament, publicly conducting hearings on the origins of UK involvement in the Iraq invasion,
has put Bush's war on terror—and British involvement—on trial—and the calmly conducted but eviscerating hearings
will go on for another year. Blair is seen as either complicit on the basis of knowing there was no casus belli or as an
enthusiastically deceived tool. Nick Clegg, leader of the Liberal Democrats, has stated that the reason support for the
Afghanistan mission has cratered is because of the lies told in the run-up to the Iraq war—another view universally held.
Meanwhile, former UK ambassador to the US Christopher Meyer has published his new book on the history of UK
diplomacy with concluding sections on the demise of the special relationship. He is not only being interviewed on all
British media but also has appeared as a voluble witness before the Chi!cot commission. All British newspapers and
journals have prominently published many pieces within the last week on the decline and fall of the US-UK relationship.
Please see the lead editorial today from the London Times and the cover story from the Spectator—two of the most
resolutely pro-American sources. The tone is not resentful, but reserved, disdainful and superior. The US administration
is considered blinkered, parochial and counter-productive.
Conservatives are more contemptuous than Labour, which feels abandoned and somewhat baffled. Rather than eager
to be Obama's poodle, Cameron would be superficially friendly and privately scornful. Class has a lot to do with the
contempt. A Cameron government would be more aristocratic and even narrowly Etonian than any Conservative
government in recent history, sharply contrasting especially with the striving and classless perspective of the grocer's
daughter, Margaret Thatcher.
And yet, the most recent poll this week showed Labour within striking distance of the Tories, about five points down,
the result of a slight economic uptick. A hung parliament seems very possible. Given the distribution of voting patterns,
Labour need not win a plurality to have more seats than the Tories.
The slight buoyancy for Labour in this unique situation has only heightened anxiety about Obama's Afghanistan
process, which has excluded the British government from significant consultation and consideration of its interests. See
the lead to Con Coughlin's Spectator piece.
Therefore, the President might contemplate a brief stop in London going to or coming from Oslo or a meeting in
Copenhage to make a public appearance with Brown. And, others in the Administration should pay special attention to
Brown to secure strong support from him, and more importantly, the whole government and British establishment
should be reassured that we do value their stalwart support despite the ups and downs of the last eight years.
Pasted below is the Times editorial and the link to the Spectator article.
From The Times
November 26, 2009
Atlantic drift
Washington's delay in announcing its Afghanistan strategy has left Brown drifting. Obama needs to invest more time and
attention in the transatlantic alliance President Obama declared on Tuesday that "the whole world" had a responsibility
to help the US-led mission in Afghanistan. He would, he said; soon lay out the "obligations of our international partners".
Those partners have been waiting a long time for the details. On Monday the President had his tenth meeting with his
advisers to work out his strategy for Afghanistan. He has now spent almost three months considering his options, and
has promised an announcement on deployments after the Thanksgiving holiday.
For Gordon Brown, this cannot come too soon. After the United States, Britain is the largest contributor of troops to the
Nato operation in Afghanistan. There has never been any suggestion that Britain has enough soldiers to pursue a
separate strategy or that it can operate independently of the US forces, which already number some 68,000 troops.
Until the White House decides whether to send an extra 40,000 or some figure significantly lower than the number
requested by General Stanley McChrystal, Mr Brown cannot properly plan the best support strategy.
It is becoming sadly apparent that Britain has been left drifting by the delays in Washington, and that the Obama
Administration is largely unaware of the embarrassment this is causing the Government. More worryingly, this does not
seem to be a source of concern within the Administration. Downing Street, diplomatically, turns aside any suggestion
that it is frustrated by the nonchalance with which it is being treated. But the insistent questions on Afghanistan, the
anger caused by the steady stream of returning war dead and the rapid crumbling of public support for the war cannot
be answered effectively until Mr Brown is taken into American confidence and seen as a full partner in the Nato
campaign.
On the surface, the continuing high regard in Britain for the dynamic and articulate new President has masked these
growling complaints. Mr Brown is not suffering, as his predecessor did, from the taint of close association with a deeply
unpopular US president. On the contrary: like several European leaders, he is still eager to position himself as close as
possible to Mr Obama to clothe himself in some of the President's European popularity. But within Government, there is
already worry that Britain's voice counts far less than it did in the past. This is not simply another instance of the
persistent but pointless British anxiety over the so-called special relationship; it is a justified concern that two of the
main pillars of the Nato alliance should have policies and strategies that are closely co-ordinated and sympathetically
understood on both sides when fighting a war.
The fault, glaringly, is on the American side. The White House no longer seems to be monitoring the reactions and
political options of its transatlantic allies. It is not sufficient to suggest that the Administration sees little point in
investing time and diplomacy in a British government likely to be defeated in the coming general election; wartime allies
have interests that go far beyond the political make-up of the government of the day. Mr Obama promised during his
election campaign to revive trust in American leadership and to re-engage in multinational diplomacy. In office, he has
certainly voiced the same ideals; but he has invested little in giving new substance and dynamism to the transatlantic
relationship.
On Afghanistan, Mr Brown has sometimes been left speechless by Washington. He talks of sending 500 extra troops. But
until he knows the likely US strategy, he cannot outline his own. Atlanticism is always fragile on the Left and was
stretched to breaking point by Tony Blair. It is now being undermined by indifference in Washington. Today America is
enjoying Thanksgiving. Tomorrow it must look out again to its all
THE SPECTATOR
A special form of disrespect
Con Coughlin <http://www.spectator.co.uk/search/authorfisearchString=Con%20Coughlin>
Wednesday, 18th November 2009Ok. What about a later shuttle?Can we implement his suggestion about pooling donors?Thx, Rich, but I don't think H should prepare a paper since it's not part of your official job. I'm seeing her this week so if
you can give me info to use, I will share w her. Appreciate the help.Derek---Thank you for all of your help and leadership on the speech and the policies it embodies. It is a delight working
w you. All the best, HillaryDo we need to talk?Ho, Ho, Ho! Don't forget the partridge in the pear tree!! Thx for a great year and here's to an even better 2010. I hope
you enjoy the holidays and get rested up for another wild ride. All the best, HillaryPls print for me.Are youy on a falucca? Here's my # if they want to call. B6Pls print for me.Do either of you have his email or cell info?Ok. Can we do now?I spoke w the Senator about our concerns with the legislation and told him Jim had sent a letter and Rich scheduled a
mtg w his staff for Monday to discuss changes we would like to see. He said he was open to our suggestions for tweaking
but there were now 76 cosponsors. I told him we understood but still hoped for some changes before Senate action.H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Thursday, June 25, 2009 3:53 PM
Re: So sorry!
David--
Thank you for your too kind words which were a greatly welcome addition to my healing and rehab. My word of advice
is to watch where you step and stay grounded!
It's an honor to serve the President w you and I'd enjoy spending some one-on-one time just comparing notes and
catching up in the next weeks. All the best, HillaryMakes a good case. Should we include policy?Here's what she said:
Sounds like a tuff day in Canada. Sorry you have such a incredibly hard job but we do appreciate all you do.
Beats me.
Original Messa•eI'd like to see pertinent recent articles/op-eds about the negotiations and vetted proposals for breaking the deadlock
like the idea I proposed to have two levels of MRV w only one eligible for $.
And can Todd et al send comprhensive overview before I leave? Make sure there's a phone on plane we take. What
else?Not until I have a report from Mitchell. No one asked mer to call and I don't know what I'd say.Jones did. Can you call me thru ops?Any from the taping yesterday or today's showing?Are you at the planning meeting w Holbrooke and Patraeus?
Also, have you seen the readout from my Karzai call? Has Holbrooke? What's the feedback?Sorryl hit send too soon!Or already in NY? Pis call me when you can. Thx.H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Sunday, November 29, 2009 3:15 PM
'abedinh@state.gov'
Re: Undeliverable: Memo potus will reference will be waiting at whitehaven when you
get there.Later is fine.I know more about this if you wish to discuss.back -- we need to talk
Call only my berry.Can you fax to my house? And email to Huma for printing.What a sad ending to the tale.I have to find time to meet w Rasmussen while I'm there. Maybe 20 minutes but I will give him whatever time he wants.Are we going to Honduras?H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Sunday, September 20, 2009 10:43 PM
'cb
Re: Eid Mubarak
RELEASE IN
PART B6
Great. Thx so much and I hope to see you as well.Yes, II give memo to Service downstairs.
What about Holder? And the King?
---H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Saturday, Se tember 5 2009 11:58 PM
'ntanden
Health care
Neera--does this make sense given the inside back and forth? Pis offer reactions, additions and anything else you think
might help.The letter is good to go w me. HRC.Tom and Craig--
I spoke w Secretary Solis and thanked her for going to Honduras. She is eager for your briefing and advice when you
meet w her today. And it is very important that Craig is going w her to guide her thru this process.
Oscar Arias told me he is very worried about whether the agreement will be implemented and is meeting w the
leading Presidential candidate this week to urge that he produce his party's 55 votes for restitution.
I also spoke w Insulza who is focussed on the elections which I told him we would fully support. Is there more we
should be doing?
Again, thanks for all your great work and good luck in the effort to get this across the finish line. Best, HRCI was told we cbuldn't get the South Africans to set time for call or call me back. I don't want to set times until I see what
else I'm doing.the next 30 min?
It has to be by then since we want to go out.I'm worried about the weather and taking the 9pm shuttle. Can we check w Mario and find out if I should leave earlier or
take the train?B4
B5What happened?tonite. I'm sorry.
That's odd since I talked to him around 10:40.Ok.Can't wait. You know how much I love making calls.Pis print.
H < hrod17@clintoriernail.corn>
Wednesday, September 12, 2012 11:28 PM
°Russont@state.gov°
Fw: Fwd: more on libya
Libya 37 sept 12 12.dacxI don't recall hearing about this particular project before. Can you do a quick analysis before I follow up?H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Thursday, October 15, 2009 9:10 PM
'pverveer
Re: Bravo!
WOW! That is HUGE. Can't wait to hear more. Thx.
Original Messa eJake Sullivan (DOS) <SullivanJJ@state.gov>
RELEASE IN PART
B6H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Friday, December 11, 2009 9:06 PM
'sullivanjj@state.gov'
Fw: Could we schedule a call?
I sent the below to Tom but haven't heard back yet. Can you pls work w Matt to get a time? Thx.Jake---Pls review, do some recon outreach and advise what, if anything, we should do. Thx. HLona---Pls cancel the 9 and I'll let you know about tomorrow. I may have to take a later shuttle or even wait until
Sunday. Just not sure yet. Thx.What exactly are the talking points?I doubt that all of these calls will be only 15 minutes. Will that matter? Have they been given windows or these specific
times?Dear Tom--
H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Friday, December 11 2009 5:41 PM
Could we schedule a call?
I have several matters I'd like to discuss w you this weekend and was hoping we can schedule a call. I'm free tonight
after 10; tomorrow btw 8-10am and Sunday btw 8-ham and after 10pm. Do any of those times work for you?
And, by the way, I'm still laughing about the yurt! HillaryThx. Anything else going on?Given my schedule today, I really don't/can't go to Gitmo PC. I think either Jack or Cheryl, accompanied by Harold and
Dan Fried should rep State. Or even Harold could go solo. Ok by you?4:30 is perfect. Pls call the house.DoneThx to all.I'd like to send letter for memorial service and call family.Here is the best spelling I've seen of our Qatari friend's name:
Sheikha Mozah Bint Nasser al-MissnedAm I seeing both Miliband and Kouchener this week?
Am I seeing the Angola FM btw May 19-22?
Can I fly to W'chester Tues night and fly back out of LaGuardia after NYU?Remember the comparison I asked for? Is that ready--I'd like it today.It sounds good to me. -who, I believe, is a superstar. What time do you want B6
to talk today? I'm free until 9 and after 1 until 7. What works for you?H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Wednesday, August 26, 2009 9:16 PM
'millscd@state.gov'
Re:RELEASE IN PART B5,B6
I agree.Ok. Are you going back tonight?Thx--be sure I see him then.Follow Up Flag: Follow up
Flag Status: Flagged
More info,I think Huma is on the way. Thx. Let's go ahead abd talk now, as soon as ops gets it ready
•Can we push more donations? I'd like to put more #s on board both thru cell and on-line.I have to call DiFi about dinner. Any ideas?tM agreed for Tom to come but I'm not sure the statement is appropriate right now. I'd rather confirm Tom's trip and tell
Zelaya tomorrow. Should Restrepo go too? And he asked why the US military would not give them access to radar that
would help them stop drug planes?PIs note on calendar. Thx.Cook stoves
Export control
Visa reform--categories that have to be vettedI will do when he is available which should not be for a few hours. Let me know when. Thx.H <hrod17@clintonemail.com >
Saturday, October 3, 2009 1:25 PM
'crowleypj@state.gov'; 'preines
'cheryl.mills. 'pvervee
Re: Statement
I'm happy to have Melanne send it as letter to GOSL Ambassador and maybe UN Rep and only release to SL and related
outlets.B6The Great Hall where we met w Hu.Pls add Billie Jean King and find out from Maura exactly what she is doing for ECA and wants to do. Tell Maura we should
have an event for all of our cultural and sports envoys to acknowledge and thank them.I shared your emails w Bill who thought they were "brilliant"! Keep 'em coming when you can.I can't remember but don't I have some Karzai event? If not, what is he doing then?Does it have to be secure?Pls print. Does he know I rec'd this?FyiPls print for my mtg.What's happening in HRC in Geneva? Do I need to call anyone? Peres is asking me to personally call and I feel I should
but need update so I'm on the phone w Harold.Can we do tomorrow around 9?What do you think? Can I commit to this?
Original Messa eTerry---I often have little control over my schedule these days, but we will look closely at this and let you know. I'm
copying Lona so she can do followup. All the best.Can we talk at 7:30 am?Ok.H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Sunday, February 28, 2010 4:59 PM
'ValmoroU©state.gov'
Re: Schedule
Thx. Also pls put as option:Jake--here's Harold's response. The work was done in NEA so we need to connect w the French today or early tomorrow.RELEASE IN PART
B4,1.4(B),B1,1.4(D),B6
Berlin was terrific. Lots of good exchanges w leaders.
Have you heard anything else?As to UNGA, let's keep the lunch if we lose so many. Any word on food mtg?Yes, I can do at 10:30.Not yet.got tickets to Crete and now can't switch. Can Paige help her?Who was it?I'm in bad cell area.Pls print.
H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Monday, June 1, 2009 1:14 PM
'abedinh@state.gov'
Re: Blair
— Reason: 1.4(B), 1.4(D) — Declassify on: 05/22/2030I called and talked w INR DAS Jim Buchanan at John Dinger's request. Pls let John know.
I called Marty Edelman and LM.Ok.Will the DCA team be in Columbia in early August? I thought we had set that up but heard today they might not get
there until September. What's the plan?Pls tell Huma and all I'm still in the lunch so apologize ti Saud.But why did he make such a big deal out of it? And what did I say when he asked?How will we set any expectations? Did anyone background the press yet?Pls put Michelle Fluornoy at DOD on list.Can you also fax one to Bill at home in NY? Do you have #?You're so right. Thankfully all is well.H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Tuesday, July 14, 2009 5:35 AM
'Imuscatine
Re: CFR draft
Thanks so much. Pls send it to me at same time so I can review as well.So Lona will include in daily schedule for Tuesday?What is Eric Scwarz's email?I've gotten some messages from yesterday--how about you?Pis do followup as indicated:
Condolence letter to from NC on loss of his mother
Congrats note to Alan Bersin the new border czar and old friend of mine
Call List adds: Ellen Chesler; Jeff Romanoff from UPMC at
Shearer, Sim Farar,
at Rendell's request; Hassan Nemazee, Derek
Has Rob done TV notes from this last trip to the officials, the Iraqi women etcPls print.Pls put
RELEASE IN PART
B6
H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Friday, July 31, 2009 3:25 PM
'JilotyLC@state.gov'; 'Russorv@state.gov'
Fw: Braval
on call list and do letter to her wishing her well etc. B6H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Tuesday, September 15, 2009 6:45 AM
'sbwhoeop
Re:
Congrats to Jackie!! Will she have a swearing in ceremony? Is Max still rising up the best seller list?PIs reach out to Dianne Feinstein for a dinner which will be very hard for me in July but if I have to be back for a few days
in early August, might work then. Just so she knows we are trying.
Also, I want to see Jack Keane for a drink.
FM Lieberman wants to see me in July--let's discuss
Also FM Zebari of Iraq will be in US in July. PIs find out when he is coming
Have you heard from Carlos Slim about a date for a mtg?
Don't forget:
the Skoll mtg,
the Arctic Council in Greenland,
Harlan Dalton's visit,
Carol Evans' request for an interview,
the Vital Voices Summit 9/14-17,
the request for a mtg or call w Dellums
the AGOA conf in DC which I was told is 8/3-4
The Putin conf about tigers in Vladivostock 9/11-19
What happened w the Baucus mtg?
Also, I'd like a working lunch w Ron Kirk and a mtg about Latin America w Chris Dodd
Pls schedule Hannah Rosenthal to see me
David Rockefeller Sr has asked to see me. I'd like to do when I'm in NY or if there is a State Dept award we could give him
for his citizen diplomacy esp in Latin America--could you run traps on that idea?
During UNGA, I have to do bilat w Cathy AshtonIs it too late to get a plane for tonight? (I have too much stuff!) If it is, I may prefer to shuttle back Sunday and fly to
Ottawa straight from DC on Monday in order to get better organized for next week.We can do tonight but not after 11. Thx.Can you talk? What time is best?Ok.Thanks on both counts.Of course I will do. Is the text set?I just found out that Jon Meacham will "moderate" the interview which puts this in a very different light. I need some
guidance about what points I'm trying to make and any info about Meacham's possible line of questions.I'm waiting for Jack's talking points which I have to have before the call. Can you make sure he emails them to me at this
address and copies Cheryl. If he has a fax, that's ok to do in addition.I didn't know they were doing operations in the conference room. Can we get some details--and promise new carpet?Thx so much for all of your help. — Reason: 1.4(B), 1.4(D) — Declassify on: 07/25/2024Ok if can be done before 1.I did not receive another draft. Did it go out?tonite. I'm sorry.
Who did he call and when? I talked to him 15 minutes ago.Any more info about his email?The following is from an observer who I think is right about the need for more strategy time which means we have to
have a better balance about travel time. I'd like your reactions. Thx.
"When it comes to foreign policy, all see you doing a great job. You must be literally killing yourself— I can see your
schedule is bruising. But you probably need more strategy time, less events as the ultimate judgment will be on •
whether iran, nk get the bomb, progress in Mideast, success in Afghanistan, Iraq. Obama's pause on Afghanistan goes
well with elite media and left that is against all wars, but not with swing male voters who are defecting. And I think it is
making the rest of your job much tougher because the delay in the decision is looking Carterlike to US adversaries — any
decision is better than no decision. But all roads likely lead to Iran and perhaps Pakistan, rest is secondary at this point.
That's my view for what it's worth. Take care.Also, if they're holding a mtg, I would think they'd want the UN/Bill and he can't go either (it's a CVC thing).Ok.Can we arrange shipments of what's requested?Can we work some of these ideas into CGI speech?Pis find out whether he supported the surge in Iraq and get a copy of his recent speech about troops to Af for me. Thx.Pis print.Pis review and forward as appropriate.
Sent from my iPad
Begin forwarded message:That's fine to go.Thanks so much. I don't know what the NSC has or will read so we need to think of this submission as representing our
views for historical purposes.H <hrod17@clintonernaii.com›
Wednesday, September 12, 2012 11:26 PM
esullivanjj@state.gov'
Fw: Fwd: more on libya
Libya 37 sept 12 12,docx
We should get this around asap.Ok to schedule after Marianne sometime.Ns print.Ok.I was out but upon return, did not find a faxed speech. Can you track down?H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Saturday, July 11, 2009 8:08 PM
Fw: N. Korea
Fyi.I thought prox talks started.Does he have an email address?Thx for sending the emails about the Nigerian. We are working on all of the issues raised.
I hope you, Jackie and the boys (men??) have a happy, healthy, prosperous 2010. I will look forward to seeing more of
you in the upcoming months.
All the best, HPls print for me.Pis print.
----Why is there no rep from WHA in my meeting w Engel and Mack tomorrow?Let me know what the outcome of this inquiry is. Also, I have sent Richard two emails over the last few weeks and never
reed a response. Can you check to find out whether he ever got it? Thx.Should I mention the cabinet and other high rankers like Ex-Im?leverage
Do you have these papers?Pis print.What a reminder and tribute to our team.Raj is off to a brilliant start and thank you for the help you provided him.
We share your assessment of Pakistan's need for a public narrative and better capacity to communicate effectively.
Judith has been working on how we improve our comm work there, and I know you were talking to the Pakistani
Ambassador about helping them. I'm copying Judith and asking that the two of you discuss what we could do given the
very difficult political landscape.
Thx for all your good counsel. We need to follow thru on the campaign for women we discussed some months back. Are
you still assisting Melanne? Let me know what I can do to hurry it along. HI can't do tonight and not sure about tomorrow morning. Is he calling me or does he think I'm calling him?What's wrong w. Diouf? I'm up and about so call if you can.I'm proud of the company we're keeping! Thx again for the chance to speak at Brookings. All best, HCheryl--I emailed Maggie. Pls let me know what you find out.consulted. Sid
Absolutely. Pis thank them—and send me addresses so I can too.It is such a sad situation.What else can I do to help?Who is he again?Pls pu )n call list and do letter to her wishing her well etc. B6Is there a time for this call?I talked w him and will download tomorrow.Pis print for me.ahead.
Pls schedule so I can get this done.Outreach Center
Pls print.H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Friday, March 11, 2011 1:36 PM
Huma Abedin
Fw: H: Latest: How Syria is aiding Qaddafi and more... Sid
hrc memo syria aiding libya 030311.docx
Pis print.Anything to add to this.When do we "unveil" food security?It does! Who is and what is Meghann referring to?I did.Let's talk tomorrow. I'll call you in the morning about two subjects: Haiti and Af-Pak. Is there anything else you want to
raise?Did anyone claim responsibility?I'd like one-on-one time w him.Pis print.What can we do?OkH <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Sunday, September 20, 2009 10:28 PM
'jpodesta
Re: When could we talk?
I'm on endless calls about the UN. Could I call you early tomorrow? Would btw 6:30 and 8:00 be too early?
Please wear socks to bed to keep your feet warm.I'm free until 10:30 and after 1. Sorry I couldn't get back to you last night.Pis print.
H < hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Monday, June 14, 2010 9:39 PM
'JilotyLC@state.gov.
Fw: HRC University. A quick thoughtWhat # should I call?10.
Pls print.Pls print. Thx.I have a bunch of them. What's best way to process? Should I do conf call w whoever need to be included?I can talk right now. Can we do conf call about Lona's memo?H <hrod17@clintonemail.com >
Sunday, November 29, 2009 12:04 PM
'sbwhoeop
Re: Another memo on backdrop to this week. Sid
I didn't read the McD reference that way. I actually thought it was complimentary of his spin skills. What am I missing?image003jpg
Pls show to Cheryl.Pls call Fluornoy's office at DOD and check this address which she sent me this am and send me the correct one asap.
Thx.I did and thank you. I'll try to call later.I just saw an article he wrote in USA Weekend claiming we had FOX on our airplane screens. What is he talking about?
He makes a big deal out of it.Fyi.H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Sunday, October 18, 2009 9:40 AM
Huma Abedin; 'ValmoroU@state.gov'; 'JilotyLC@state.gov.
Ann StockPls add to the acknowledgements: Howard Friedman, Ester Kurz and Richard Fishman.Indeed. I'm a berry farmer.Sounds real--cross your fingers. Let me know what you hear.Yes, I would.Ok. Thx.
Also, are you in DC?
---Ok but I'm confused since I remember talking w Lona about changing to 8 tonight.Who do I congratulate at weekly meeting Monday on securing agreement?H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Tuesday, September 8, 2009 2:07 PM
'JilotyLC@state.gov'
Fw: Fax From Unknown Sender - (Fax Number Unavailable)
7138b5375f844ffc80fa61449bef1045.pdf
Pls print.Have you discussed w Bill Burns and Steve Bosworth?What did WH say?If he's coming to London, could I see him there? Also what's status of France?I am free for the next hour.
When can you talk?Do you know her?Can you come over in the morning early-7:30-to do these mtgs w me?H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Thursday, February 4, 2010 7:06 PM
'sullivanjj@state.gov'
Fw: URGENT GOOD NEWs ON NI!!!! Sid
Fyi. So I need to do press early starting by 9.Pis add to call list and prepare a letter to Father B.Pls be sure that this # is on call list.Spoke w Snowe about Patriarch and McConnell about Af-Pak and nominees, especially Raj, Tom and Phil. He said h'ed
check on our nominees; do we expect vote today?
How was Mary Poppins?Better than we could have expected so good to go.I am going to leave so calls will have to be on my berry. Someone should email and I will then call in.We need details from our Embassy about this deal. The Russians often overpromise. But, regardless, if just proves again
why we needed to go.Rob--
First, Happy New Year and thank you for all of your great work this past year. It is a treat having you on our team, and
I'm looking forward to an even better 2010. Also, pls let me know if you have any ideas about how we could improve our
processes and products. Thanks for everything.Of course. Who will be there?When can she talk?Should I make a statement in briefing room on Monday? What about Sid's comment that Shaun would want to talk to
me tomorrow?I'm on shuttle and, if all goes well, will stop first at State. Based on your work w S/RAP do you have suggestions as to
what points I should make to set us up as counterpart to military and prepare for Friday and next week?Can you get announce ready so as soon as I reach him, you can get it out?Can you pick up a few copies of the magazine for me?Ok. I'll read the whole thing. Can you email it to me?H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Saturday, April 24, 2010 6:26 PM •
'JilotyLC@state.gov'
Fw: FYI Kornblum... Sid
Pls print and have delivered to my house.My fax is broken! So Huma is coming to print for me. I'm trying to conference you and Jake to discuss. Thx.I still don't have my MTP briefing.Oh, dear. I guess I'd rather leave at 2 but does that present problems I don't know about?I wouldn't have closed the govt again tomorrow but once the decision was made, it is difficult to operate inside the
Building since so many staff will stay away. So let's work from home--again!Both Gates and I said the same on the Sunday shows.Ok. I also emailed her. Can I get a full list of us participants w the full names of agencies--i don't know what USDTA is!image003.jpg
FyiCould we postpone start of video conf so I could meet his family?H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Saturday, August 1,2009 11:55 AM
'David_Garten@lautenberg.senate.gov'
Re: Small World
David--Great hearing from and delighted you got to meet
experience. Hope you're relishing yours as well. All the best. HAre we still planning for me to deliver a speech laying out our strategic overview of how we see Asia organized and the
US role in the 21st century in Hawaii on 1/12 on way to Australia and NZ? If so, is there an outline? Will we meet to
discuss early next week?Take off:
Hariri
Sulayman
Papandreou
Ashton
Abbas
Gheit
Faisal
Amorim
Posner
Schuster
SolisWhat are you thinking?Rich, 'Given his recent letter to me, I need to call him soon. Can you provide suggested points for Iran and Israel? Thx.I like the draft. I have a few comments and ideas for the end. PIs talk to Lona about coming to see me later.Let's discuss.Can you pls call me thru ops?I'm free now.Is there a backstory?Can he help me talk w Micheletti?What are you ordering for dinner? Might need to order for us too.Have you talked w Mitchell and Feltmann yet?I haven't seen it yet and it's not in my materials for today.RELEASE IN PART
B6
Pls print.Do you know if I have any photo w him? If not I need a photo of me to send for a surprise 50th birthday book.I agree it is worth considering.Actually, I can also make it work before noon if he prefers by moving other calls around. Just let me know. Thx.Are you meeting me at shuttle?Nora--
Cheryl has emailed dozens of memos about Haiti to me this weekend. Can you please print them and organize them in
chrono order for me for my trip tomorrow or send to Lauren so she can do? Thx.Pis contact Judith Barnett who has lots of ideas about partnering w business about the Middle East. Do you know her?Can I see Kristy just for hands this am, tonight or tomorrow am?I don't think I made any progress. What will it mean if we can't raise the remaining $? Where else can we try?H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Sunday, October 4, 2009 5:17 PM
'SBerger
Re:
Thanks, Sandy. This is very helpful.My one reaction is that I want Derek to handle India dialogue.Good.Probably for this season, but I'll be ready next spring! Until then, I'll keep my day job.Thx. What's happening?Yes before 9, btw 10-10:30 or btw 3 and 6.I reed the two books for the SED but nothing for MTP. Will it arrive soon?O'Reilly is still going after Mike over the Chinese/ Arizona law commentH <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Wednesday, October 7, 2009 6:46 AM
'stalbott
'JilotyLC@state.gov'
Re: Rose....
Thx for passing on the feedback which I will share w her. Let's plan another catch up call. I'm copying my assistant,
Lauren, to try to schedule for us.That is so gratifying! Thx for all your encouragement.H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Tuesday, November 10, 2009 1:41 PM
Re:
Was in Berlin, which was moving and drenching and am now in Singapore. Are you around in DC this week? We're due
for another catch up call. HIs there any way to reschedule so I have more time around the interviews and photo shoot before going to WH?Did we regret this?Jake--i told you yesterday, but it bears repeating--you're doing a wonderful job. Not just on the speech, but all the work
to establish and implement the priorities it represents. I'm very grateful---HillaryLetter fine to go.Can you send my mini?I really want to go to Cronkite's service. Can we change time for MCC to late afternoon? If not, can Jack preside?I can't believe the govt is closed again. I guess I will work from home again but think this is silly.When is Chris Stevens going?
---,Pls print.Thx.When will I get it? Can it be faxed to house?Happy Halloween from Abu Dhabi! I would be happy to meet w the machinist members but I'm not sure who they are!
I'm copying Lona to ask her to call you to get details so she can follow up. I hope we can catch up soon! Lots of treats
(and no tricks!) for you and David!H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Thursday January 5 2012 5:22 PM
B6
Re: H: latest intel libyan conflicts, leaders & militias. Sid
Thanks, as always, and Happy New Year!
_Ok.I love the ideas and will gladly do whatever you decide.Agreed--Maura is so smart!Adrian--
H <HDR22@clintonemail.com>
Tuesday, May 26, 2009 8:45 AM
H2; 'abedinh@state.gov'
Re: to Huma, from Adrian Talbott re:
Thank you for your kind offer which I gladly accept.BINGO! Thx--I thought we were losing our memories.Are you getting any feedback? How soon will FOX attack me for my "tax the rich" comments?What do we know about him?Did you see the photo in the NYPost of Bill and me from yesterday? It was after lunch but I didn't see anybody w a
camera so obviously a long lens from afar.Could we do at 4:30 or 6:45?Pis let me know what Phil finds out asap. Thx.Can you run the trapsWelcome news. Pls keep me updated w what you hear. Thx.That's very nice--high praise indeed, and in the Cong Record for prosperity!Ok, thx.Pls schedule call when I can do this afternoon. I'm on my way back.Could we do the Women FMs and Heads of State as a dinner instead of a lunch on 9/24?Russians are saying he is unavailable and don't know when or if he will call in. What's next step?He should be--I just finished the book and it's great. Congrats to all!I just went over edits w Dan. Let me know if there are any serious changes from reviewers.H <hrod17@clintonemail.corn>
Friday, March 11, 2011 1:36 PM
Huma Abedin
Fw: H: Latest: How Syria is aiding Qaddafi and more... Sid
hrc memo Syria aiding libya 030311.docx
Pis print.FyiAny news from Shannon or Maria?Jeff/Harold--
I spoke w Kouchener who will be meeting in Paris tomorrow night w Moroccan FM Faris-Firri. I told him we had offered
ideas to help them out of their current standoff re returning the passport.
Jeff, can you call your French counterpart to explain and connect w Harold if we need L to contact the French legal
advisor? Thanks-iand let me know what unfolds. HillaryPls print three copies of this for me.Can we leave closer to 8:30? Tomorrow changes ok altho I did tell WH I couldn't do at 5!!Will I get them before I deliver them?POTUS is running late so Katie will tell us when to come back--not before 4:10.Melanne--thanks for all you're doing and say "hello" to everyone. Also can you pls send me info on the FFF? I'm copying
Megan Rooney and Jake who are working on the speech for the Forum. Take care.H <hrod17@clintonernail.com>
Friday, April 8, 2011 5:35 PM
'sullivanjj@state.govi
Fvv: H: UK game playing; new rebel strategists; Egypt moves in Sid
hit memo UK games; new rebel strategists; Egypt moves 040811.docx
Fyi, B5Agreed.How about 6pm?When I'm in NY at UN I'd like to have mtg w Margot Wallstrom, the new Special Rep on sexual violence. Melanne knows
her.
I'd like to do a mtg early in week about message for Latin Am trip
I need to see Andrew this week w Jack Lew.
Am I scheduled to re-launch the NetFreedom Taskforce per a memo I rec'd from Hormats and Otero?How did your dinner w Paul go? When will we know?Does this mean you have to go to Cuba and arrest Castro or just shovel more $ into Little Havana?H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Wednesday, August 26, 2009 8:03 AM
'millscd@state.gov'
'abedinh@state.gov'; 'sullivanjj@state.gov'
Re: Urgent Letter for the Secretary's Clearance
I thinkH <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Saturday, February 27, 2010 8:03 PM
'stalbott
Re: Our mutual friend
Could you talk now or tomorrow early morning?Be sure they know we'll be happy to pay for them. State and I. Talk w Justin about it too.I agree and will act accordingly.Ok. Let's discuss this and my "list" over the weekend. Can we set time for meeting?OkPis print.
H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Friday, September 14, 2012 8:56 PM
`Russorv@state.gov'
Fw: CNN Belief Blog. ProtheroWho is
H <hrod17@clintonemail.com >
Tuesday, October 20, 2009 6:46 AM
'millscd@state.gov'
Re: Resume and Other Matters
RELEASE IN PART B6Can you send me a draft this morning? And, what is the Lamplighter story?H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Monday, December 28, 2009 10:59 AM
'cheryl.mills@ 'PosnerMH@state.gov'; 'daniel.baer@
'sullivanjj@state.gov'
'crowleypj@state.gov'; 'preines@
WPost editorial
I thought the argument they made yesterday about the human rights speech was either deliberately obtuse or clueless.
Either way, we need to respond and refute. Can you have a response drafted and sent to me? Also, I'd like to see a
summary of points made by other commentary. Thx.Can you call now?I thought you meant next Sunday or Monday. What about this Wed afternoon or Thurs in DC? I told Cheryl and Philippe I
wouldn't leave early. If the Oprah team want to come out here and one of our friends is willing to let us use their house
out here this Monday, I would do that.Pls print.u a little more time.
I know the Greek call will last a long time and I can't predict how long Yang will take so this is not a good idea. But if I can
finish the P call by 8:20, then I can do as long as I'm done by 8:45.I am willing to take additional steps but I'd like them to be fully vetted. Can you work w AMS, Steinberg and WHA to
make proposal tomorrow?Fyi.
H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Tuesday, February 16, 2010 9:57 AM
'sullivanjj@state.gov'
Fw: H: FYI: Les Gelb. SNice!What is evidence that this group sponsored it?Will you check what the Canadians told us about the bridge being open and, if true, be sure Schumer and Gillibrand are
told.PIs printWhere are we on this?That's great. Will you be there?H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Monday, June 14, 2010 9:35 PM
'cb
Re: contiaentia!
I would be happy to meet w him. How should I follow up to arrange a mutually agreeable time? All the best to you.I'm at home in NY so just call when and if you can.Thx.There are Qs+As thru out the briefing book but not yet a document of the most likely/contentious ones. That's what I'm
looking to get next week. Thx.I'll wait to see him in person next week. Do we know when that would be?I didn't know that--can we find out why. At least we had it open for 7 years but why does stuff like this stalk us?Indeed!Very interesting. Thanks. Speaking of Australia, I was sorry about Kevin Rudd.
Original Messa eSounds good. Thx.First, Happy New Year to Jen and Stern clan. Hope to talk soon about our way forward for 2010.
I received the following email from Jairem Ramesh over the holidays. I intend to respond in kind but wanted to run by
you for advice.
Thx. HRC---
Dear Madam Secretary of State:
It was wonderful catching up with you in Copenhagen. The opportunity to interact with President Obama and you at the
very last minute to salvage the Copenhagen Accord at the US-BASIC Summit Meeting was fantastic and unforgettable for
me personally. I am still reeling from that historic 75 minutes!!
With greetings for Xmas and best wishes for the New Year,
With warmest regards,
Jairam RameshI will probably have to see them and Zelaya tomorrow. We should coordinate w Tom.Also the briefing is unclear about the order of speakers so pls be sure that is set in script.Foe example, the statement that the debate about out-of-area operations being over doesn't look so clear post Dutch
decision.Pis call and ask what he wants and put on my call list.
Ortainal-russage
From
To. H
Sent: Mon Sep 14 15:08:50 2009
Subject: Fwd: Left at the Gate - blog
Hi Mrs. Secretary,
I am chairman of AEG. I need your advice on a few matters. Is there a time that would be convenient for me to call or
visit you? I shall be in DC Thursday evening through Monday. Please let me know if anything works. Thanks.
Richard Mays
Mays, Byrd & Associates, P.A.
415 Main Street
Little Rock, AR 72201
fax - 501-399-9280
toll free 1-800-227-1529
Sent: 9/14/2009 10:57:14 A.M. Central Daylight Time
Subj: Left at the Gate - blog
Monday, September 14, 2009
Odds On the Big A <http://leftatthegate.blogspot.com/2009/09/odds-on-big.html>
Even as Governor Paterson reportedly has his recommendation on the Aqueduct racino in hand (this reader says
that he actually has two to consider <http://leftatthegate.blogspot.com/2009/09/sunday-morning-notes-and-
nuts.html#comment-1156672372250588546> ), at least one of the bidders is still taking its case to the local community
around the track. The Queens Chronicle reported last week
<http://www.zwire.com/site/news.cfm?newsid=20368289&BRD=2731&PAG=461&dept_id=574908&rfi=6> that SL
Green/Hard Rock made a presentation on Thursday.
"Hard Rock is the right balance," [Pres/CEO Marc] Holliday said. "Its recognized brand and quality entertainment
will attract younger and older players across the stratum. People flying in from JFK will say, 'I hear there's a Hard Rock, I
want to see it."
One of this group's big pitches is that they'll be the first to generate a revenue stream ("shovel-ready, in the
ground, the day after the award.")
And thanks to the reader who alerted us to this article in Crain's
<http://www.crainsnewyork.com/article/20090913/FREE/309139964> which, more importantly than comprising yet
another virtual press release for Steve Wynn, contains, towards the bottom, a handy pocket guide to the six bidders, the
financial portion of their bids (or at least what is known about them), and the ups and downs of their proposals.
This is a tough call; handicapping without the Form as I said before. I can't say I have a favorite; neither a
particular personal preference, nor a clue as to the most likely winner. But I'll give it a shot and take the Crain's piece
one step further by coming up with a morning line.
<http://1.bp.blogspot.com/yiJ1ri4LCfk/Sq2_nTNU jI/AAAAAAAABHM/UucITWnkilM/s1600-
h/dont_bother.jpg> Aqueduct Entertainment Group <http://www.aqueductentertainment.comk (3-1): Competitive bid
of $251 million (contingent on 7,650 machines; $301 million with 10,000), a plethora of local connections on the real
estate/construction side, and approval by local unions could compensate for the lack of brand name recognition of
gaming partner The Navegante Group. Presence of Senator Malcolm Smith's longtime confidante Rev. Floyd Flake
doesn't hurt either.
SL Green/Hard Rock (4-1) - Boosted its bid to $275 million, and has the Hard Rock brand name as mentioned
above. Manhattan-based realtor SL Green has been endorsed by several local unions
<http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_m3601/is_43_54/ai_n27894917/> . But, as mentioned by Crain's, they were
passed over in favor of Delaware North the first time around.
Aqueduct Gaming (6-1), Buffalo-based Delaware North's group, has rallied late with a stepped-up publicity effort
and a major community initiative <http://leftatthegate.blogspot.com/2009/08/back-in-game.html> after appearing
indifferent early on (though it's original $100 million upfront offer remains intact with an additional $200 million to
follow). The addition of Harrah's <http://www.marketwire.com/press-release/Aqueduct-Gaming-L1c-1034906.html>
adds an experienced operator and an interesting cross-marketing twist which is probably not allowed under the now-
disappeared MOU. And, like the two bidders above, Aqueduct Gaming has been reported to have reached
accommodations with the unions. So I listed them as the third choice on these merits. However, a part of me wants to
list them as the rank outsider - I'd be pretty damn shocked if the state goes back to the company which dropped out
after failing to raise the money last time. And, as I've mentioned several times, given the reports of an investigation
<http://www.nydailynews.com/news/2009/05/01/2009-05-
01_attorney_general_andrew_cuomo_subpoenas_contracts_won_by_clients_offirm_tied_to.html> by Attorney
General Andrew Cuomo into lobbyist Patricia Lynch's dealings with the Assembly Speaker, I don't know if her
involvement here is going to help or hurt.
Steve Wynn (8-1) has offered $300 million, but he was the only bidder of the six contenders to receive a bad
grade from the hotel unions <http://www.timesunion.com/AspStories/story.asp?storylD=838256&category=STATE> as
reported by Jim Odato in the Times Union last week. Whatsmore, the scale of his building proposal
<http://www.queenstribune.com/news/1250798405.html> is laughably ridiculous, and it wouldn't be ready until 2011.
He'd be the favorite if the decision is based on the number of newspaper and online articles
<http://leftatthegate.blogspot.com/2009/08/all-wynn-all-of-time.html> each bidder has been featured in. But, quite
simply, he sometimes comes off as a nut
<http://www.nypost.com/p/pagesix/cindy_adams/wynn_hopes_to_win_racefor_race_hzqJ384wLxUSxFKsUWiSyM> .
Penn National (12-1) might be worth a ducat at long odds. No local connection here makes them a dark horse.
But a $250 million bid (as reported elsewhere <http://blog.timesunion.com/capitol/archives/17717/penn-national-
lobbies-up/> though not in the Crain's piece) puts them in the ballgame, and the company is an experienced gaming
operator with a solid balance sheet
<http://www.businessweek.com/investor/content/aug2009/pi20090814_742719.htm> which would probably do as
competent a job as anyone else.
R. Donahue Peebles/MGM Mirage (20-1) didn't increase its $150 million bid, and doesn't have a lobbyist; good
luck with that. Whatsmore, no local flavor and MGM Mirage has had some well-publicized financial woes (though things
have been looking up of late <http://online.wsj.com/article/SB125212120561188377.html> ). Would be a major
surprise.
Andrew Frank
Managing Partner New York
Kreab Gavin Anderson
515 Madison Avenue, 18th floor, New York, NY 10022, United States
Tel
Mob
Fax +1 212 935 6577
www.kreabgavinanderson.com <http://www.kreabgavinanderson.comh
This communication is only intended for the use of the individual or entity, to which it is directed and may
contain information that is privileged, confidential and exempt from disclosure under applicable law. If received in error
please notify us immediately, delete this e-mail and destroy all copies.arrange a meeting with Hillary?
Pls follow up. They could come by the Dept. which seems like the only time it would work.Can you get #s for me so I can call and congratulate her?Ok. I'll plan for cal tomorrow.
Also, I'd like to talk w you before your mtg w Denis and Ben about future ideas. Can you talk tonight? what times would
be best?Rick--
I would love to participate on behalf of my "brother"! I'm copying my assistant, Lauren, and asking her to coordinate
this for us. Hope you're holding up during these challenging times. All the best, HOk w me.Thx! I bought the coat in Kabul in 03 and thought it should get a chance to go home for a visit! See you tomorrow.Thx for all you did to make it work. I thought it went very well and I was so pleased you could be there. Now, onto the
Irish!Ok. Has it gone out yet?I think we have to mention
B5Dear Mike---
Congrats on your book; you must be very excited to see it in print after so much work. I'm looking forward to reading it.
And I hope you're working on the democracy/human rights speech I'm giving the week of the 7th. Are you?
Also, David Miliband told me that the UK lost more soldiers in the Falklands than they have in Afghanistan. Would you
pls verify that for me? Thx.
All the best, and Happy Thanksgiving! HillaryWell, Philippe looks right again. CNN is reporting this as being done against my wishes. Any way to salvage?Ok.What is his email at White House?Agree that if they're released then get them out asap. Either we or DOJ can issue statement.What is total USG spent in Af since 9/11? I believe we have spent $15.4B in Pak.Just found out you are, of course, in P'burg trying to herd cats. See you back in DC.H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Wednesday, August 12, 2009 5:17 PM
'abedinh@state.gov'; Huma Abedin
H2
Followup
Is there a record of who attends the bilat mtgs I hold?Pls print.
H <hrod17@clintonemail.com >
Friday, December 11, 2009 5:11 AM
'JilotyLC@state.gov'
Fw: HiI'm worried that by Sunday my answer will seem too calm under the circumstances.PIs do after 1 if possible.Barb, I will call to explain. Are you back in the country? HWill you call him or do you want me to?Can do at 10. Can I get call sheet?FyiWhere are you??? HRCPis print.
From Mills, Cheryl D [mailto:MillsCD@state.gov]
Sent: Friday, September 21, 2012 0404 PM
To: H
Subject: FW: Libyans march against Islamist militias in BenghaziB6
I will call ifyou are.Do you know where my pt instruction sheets are?The latest draft is getting closer. And I agree w Dan that we have to be careful not to topple the tree w too many
ornaments. That said, I'd like to have a call w you (and anyone else who you think should be on) this afternoon or
evening to raise a few points. I'm copying Lona and Huma so they can help schedule it. Thanks for all your good work.Army)on NPR saying he is upset because they are running out of supplies and he keeps
being told they are in the air.Pls print.Yes.Also, once we know what time I need to be in DC, I'll need a shuttle time. And I want to lock in my return to NY on
Thursday. Do you know what time I can take a shuttle on Thursday?Monica--I hope you had a wonderful holiday season and thank you for all of your help this past year. You've been a life
saver. I'm looking forward to 2010 being even better.
Here are a few things as we start the year--
I'd like to work w you to prepare a menu for Jason. Also does he give me a monthly bill for the food he buys and
prepares for me?
Could you or he buy skim milk for me to have for my tea? Also, pls remind me to bring more tea cups from home.
Also, pls try to get me a copy of the Human Rights Watch report titled "We Have the Promises of the World: Women's
Rights in Afghanistan."
Can you give me times for two TV shows: Parks and Recreation and The Good Wife?Let me know what you find out. Probably need to talk w Bader and Froman too.Can I pls have the service drive me in my van to the airport? Is that possible?Pis print
H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Wednesday, October 3, 2012 12:05 PM
'Russorv@state.gov'
Fw: Fwd: Benghazi was obama's 3 am call--I approved. Will it be picked up?
--call w King should be scheduled so keep working w Huma
--I will speak to Holder. Does he need to speak secure? I can do either.Revise as follows:
I spoke w the following so remove--
Snowe
Yang
McConnell
Baugh
LaHood
WebbPls print.
H <hrod17@clintonemail.com >
Wednesday, May 12, 2010 7:28 AM
'JilotyLC@state.gov'
Fw: 2 good articles on the effects of sleep and women's healthCould we do Tuesday after the 8:45?Can you call me?How can he not have time since the PC dropped? Also, now that I'm not leaving until Friday, I can do later on Thurs or Fri
am.Tell Lona I'm running late but want to reschedule Lona and Huma.Let's discuss asap. I'm free until 11 this am.I'm taking 3 shuttle so should do in next half hour. Anything I need to know before calling Richard back?Pls printHuma called him and Graham. Also, someone should call Greta VS to thank her for "knowing the truth."What's the full story on this?Good. Also pls be sure Ellen Tauscher knows I asked Jim Jones last week to call Kerry about her hearing and call Sarah
Farnsworth to see if Jones did it yet.I told Andrew I would do the things he requested in his memo to me and he should talk to you about scheduling.FyiCan you have S/P prepare a comparison of India, Pakistan and Banghladesh over the last 20-30 years on as many factors
reflecting their respective economic and social development as you can muster? I suspect it will prove useful in my
meetings w Pak leaders in ten days.I called and was transferred to room but got no answer. Should I just send him something? Or can you get him and
transfer call to my house?
Also I can do scheduling btw now and 12:30.I want to do dinner but discuss invites w me first. Thx.H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Saturday, February 13, 2010 1:17 PM
'sbwhoeop
Re:
Are you at home?You can make that call for me.
H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Wednesday, December 2, 2009 8:12 AM
jake.sullivan
Re: insertI did once before speech and will do again. Thx to all.H <hrod17@clintonemaiLcom>
Wednesday, July 4, 2012 7:54 AM
'sullivanjj@state.gov'
Fw: H: Libyan elections intel. Sid
hrc memo libyan elections intel 070312.docx
More info.
B6H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Wednesday, May 20, 2009 8:08 AM
'ValmoroU@state.gov'
Re: A request
Of course! Come meet me and go w me. I am copying‘Lona so she can call you to set it up.
Should we try to arrange a meeting w a smaller group to discuss our way forward w AID?H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Sunday, February 21, 2010 12:13 PM
'abedinh@state.gov'
Re:
Asked me to call back with details. Any direction?
We don't know about this and have no plans to do so, but Bill will call him later to return his callWhat can we do to celebrate?Fyi.
B6the world together-"Fourth Turning"...might want to re-read the ending chapters of Neil
Howe and Bill Strauss book-love you so
Pis get me a copy of this book from the library. Thx.I read that CM is in Philadelphia but if she's back I'd at least like to call again. The timing, however, is B6
hard for a visit since I need to see Santa around 7:45 after seeing Lisa. It might work if she's there and wants to see
people other than close friends. What do you think?Can you come over and help me w my test?Ok to go.Pls do letter toStrobe--This is wonderful news and such a fitting memorial to Booke.. Also. I would like
to talk w you about your ideas of what I can/should be doing. Could I call in the next few days? What times are best for
you? HI agree on both, but wonder can we abstain on the first?
Also, I have not rec'd the speech draft. Should I have ?How's it going? I'm happy to go on the record anytime anywhere on his behalf. Just let me know.Pls send Gen. Shalikashvili's numbers to Bill's staff because he asked me to have Bill call him.
Send all of Ron Dellums' numbers also to Bill.
Did I write Kris Durmer? If so, pls remove.
Pls add to list:
Susan Berger
Mark Weiner
Pls take off:
Albright
Lavrov
Spindelegger
Clark (ask Amb. Morningstar to call him to discuss oil shale in Europe) Saudabayev HolbrookeWell, as I thought, this bill has legs and looks like it's about to start running. Also, I thought the QDDR would be done
much sooner than Fall. Let's discuss this weekend.I think AMS makes a strong case and we should discuss and decide how to proceed asap.Thx for the changes you made. A few questions:
Is the Vitamin A research on p. 8 accurate given recent research that raised doubts about it efficacy?
Will you print out a copy of the MDGs for me to have for speech?
Is there a teleprompter?
Didn't Jim Grant also pioneer the widespread use of oral rehydration therapy? If so, we should include too.
It is so much better--thank you.Not a surprising assessment from Embassy.Barb--
I loved your comments at your re-election kickoff and hope you've scared off all the would-be opponents.
How's our friend, Martin, doing? I know he has a rematch when he should be reelected by acclamation for steering the
ship of state so well. Pls give him my best wishes.
And go get 'em! Your friend and booster, HillaryHere are some matters I haven't raised w you but wanted to get your reaction:
Was there any followup to offer to help/advise on Afghan women?
Re your memo about S/GWI priorities for FY 09 and 10--
Will we be announcing the global womens fund and/or other partnerships at UNGA?
Are we closely coordinating w the WH and its Council?
How can we strengthen the AID Women's office?
Are the Congress Members ok w our work and priorities so far? What about the 2010 budget?
Who will be the UN women's voice on the inside and outside?
How will we mark 15th anniv of Cairo?
Let's do a thorough review about CEDAW strategy. Should we ask to be on contract w H to lead our
efforts?
What's followup w Doug Hattaway?
Are you working w Alec Ross? ECA?
Are you working w WHA and Julissa Reynoso on econ issues?
What are we doing w MEPI?
Are you staffed up now?
Did you see Kay Warren when she was in DC for Eric Goosby's swearing in?Pis print.
H <hrod17@ciintonernail.com>
Sunday, September 23, 2012 10:36 PM
'hanleymr@state.gov.
Fw: thanks
...Pls print 2 copies.Sounds good.H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Tuesday December 8 2009 7:17 AM
'millscd@state.gov'
Checking in
Sorry we didn't talk last night but I actually collapsed when I got back from my speech. Let's try again tonight. Let me
know what time will work. I should be home by 7. Hope you're loving the sun!RELEASE IN PART B6Also can you email copy of my speech yesterday to Oscar to print for me?In stories today RI suggests we're open to alternatives to our TRR proposal. The WSJ says it's a reversal of position. What
gives?Pls follow up.I spoke w the Senator who is not ready to lift his hold yet. He spoke w the Charge in the Brazilian Embassy who told him
there was a procedure in the Brazilian courts that could be used to give Mr. Goldman custody now and during the
remaining time of the court proceedings.
Craig, can you find out what the Brazilians meant by that and if their govt is pursuing it?
Bob, can you and USTR contact your Brazilian counterparts to explain how important the Goldman case is to the Senator
who can't understand how the father wins every case but never gets his son back and he has run out of patience and is
willing to hold this critical bill.
Let me know what you find out. Thanks.Cherie--this is strange since meeting was confirmed several days ago. In fact, her office called back to say it was the only
time that worked for her. Its at 7pm on the 24th. Can you confirm for me that she knows this. Thx.Ok. Let me know how it unfolds.Pls print for me.
Original Messag,eHave you left yet?We should try.I think in the early weeks that was enough to stop him.H <hrod17@clintonemail.com >
Wednesday, December 16, 2009 10:37 PM
'vermarr@state.gov'
Re: We have informed our cloakroom that we lift the hold on Shannon nomination
Can we get him confirmed tonight?H <hrod17@clintonemail.com >
Thursday, November 5, 2009 6:32 AM
'millscd@state.gov'; 'balderstonkm@state.gov'; 'toivnf@state.gov'
'crowleypj@state.gov'; 'preines
Re: Ed Luce article
Great article. Thx to all. I'm copying PJ and Philippe to see if they can it into US press coverage of us and our efforts.graduate,-howard-university-student-beats-the-odds-050710
Burns, what were you doing watching Titanic again?Can you send me his email address?I would like to discuss.How's it playing?I'd prefer to get all calls done by 2 if possible.I'm in the car. Will ops call me or should I call in?No, 8 is better.Pis call Joe and ask him for Judy Rupert's email and phone info. When you have it, pis call or email her to tell her how to
contact me.H <hrod17@clintonernail.com5
Wednesday, October 17, 2012 9:14 PM
'RLissorv@state.gov'
Fw: Fwd: [Salon] The Death of Ambassador Chris Stevens, the Need for "Expeditionary
Diplomacy, " and the Real Lessons for U.S. Diplomacy
Pls print.H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Tuesday, September 15, 2009 6:20 AM
'ValmoroU@state.gov'
Huma Abedin
Fw: Sheikha Mosa of Qatar
Lona--have we worked this out?Thank you.Former Dep Secretary of State John Whitehead has a private sector group working on water. Pls be sure he is contacted
as part of our planning.Wendy--
Thanks for your good wishes. I am finally on the mend and starting physical therapy. One word of advice--watch where
you step!
I was very excited by the announced merger w Sandy's firm which sounds like a win-win for all.
I miss seeing you and hope we can remedy that soon. Happy 4th!Is Dan coming at 9?
----H <hrod17@clintonemail.com >
Wednesday, December 2, 2009 7:59 AM
'jake.sullivan
Re: insert
RELEASE IN PART
B5,B6
Ok let's discuss in call.Pls do--and no apology necessary.AMS mentioned Maria's edits. Here's email from her w specifics.If we can clear schedule tomorrow that's best but I don't want to offend the Armenians or Azeris. Can you send me what
Tues-Fri would look like if we did that? Also we have the Trilateral plus LavrovBe sure I do a video conf w Chris hill in next few weeks.Also, did you talk w Feltmann?PIs print. THow Come we havent?
Pls print.Can you try to find out? Maybe they don't want to be associated w big cities? I had a lot of support from the Conf and
the mayors so I hope that's not it.This says Guines but I meant Morocco. Sorry.I received the book from Rich, but there is no sample Q+A. Will I get that next week?Have you reached Mark yet? I'd be happy to see him as he requested for a drop by.Pis let me know when you send--I'm having fax trouble.I'm on the way.I am calling Tom.I need time on Thursday or Friday to see Holbrooke.
Mark Hyman is in town Wed and Thurs and I'd like to see him.FOX is beating the heck out of Mike for what he said in his briefing on the China human rights dialogue about the
Arizona law. Can you track downYes--I will do.Capricia--are you in the hotel? I'd love to see you. Let me know. Thx to you and your team. HWho do I respond to re these calls? Or are we just sending the memcons?H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Wednesday, November 25, 2009 4:56 PM
'sullivanjj@state.gov.
Re: Statement on settlement moratorium
What do you think?Ok. Thx. Enjoy the Mar. See you in DC.Do you know why?H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Saturday, January 2, 2010 6:14 AM
'verveerms@state.gov'
Re:
And, the very best new year to you, and the Verveer tribe. Thanks for all you are doing and for working w me again. B6
We have a lot of big challenges and many opportunities ahead of us and I'm excited to get started again. See you next
week!Given how this conversation is going, I think we should wait on Zelaya. Micheletti does not seem at all willing to move.For Tuesday, when will I see Daalder and Hill?
I'm not sure I have the time to go back to NY for Cronkite funeral altho I would still like to.
I need more time w Holbrooke on Thursday so see if he can be moved to 12:45 or another time that works like 8am.
I want to meet w people Thursday night so pls don't schedule anything after Capricia's event.
On Friday, can Kessler be moved to next week?
Rahm told me there may be a small mtg w the POTUS on Sunday morning so I may need to take plane back either late
Sat night or early Sun am. Also Rahm said he wanted to see me alone sometime before that Sunday mtg. Pls follow up
on both mtgs.
If there is a Sunday am mtg w POTUS, I will also try to go to the Ling lunch.
Why are there no early staff mtgs listed for Thurs the 10th and Fri the 11th on the line?
I see the Iran dinner on the schedule but not a women's policy lunch or dinner. Can we do that Monday the 14th or
Thursday the 17th? I want to do it before the Development speech.
Talk w Cheryl and others about doing the development speech in NY combined w "town hall" at a college or other venue
on Monday the 21st (which would make Philippe happy).Todd--
I look forward to our next steps to deliver on our accord after we both get some sleep and a few days off. Thanks for all
your great work, and my very best to you, Jen and the boys for the new year. HillaryHere's a partial list of followup from our last trip and the last week:
What can we do to help protect the Christians in Iraq as requested by Ken Joseph whom we saw in Baghdad?
JoDee Winterhof raised questions about how the PRTs and the language DOD uses about them are problematic for
NGOs like care.
Pls ask one of Holbrooke's people if they ever talked to Wolfgang Danspeckgruber at Princeton about building a railroad
in Aghanistan.
Also Dr. Arthur Keys at International Relief + Development wanted to talk w someone from Holbrooke's team about
development in Af.
I asked the Spec IG for Af Recon, Arnold Fields, to alert us to problems as soon as they can. I'm not sure how to formalize
this or even if it's appropriate. Let's discuss.
What are the "Iran Watchers"?I hope we can achieve both power and poetry. Who is doing the short Monday remarks?A friend just emailed me telling me she was so sorry I had such a tough day in Canada. What's the news that suggests
that back here?Can we flip Jones to Thursday in what would have been the PC slot? And keep the time on Wed free for staff stuff?Lauren told me after 1 would not work for him so that's why tomorrow is better.Ok. Did Dan redraft?Marty--
Thanks for the update and pls let me know the dates for each service. I really hope to make one of them. I'm copying
Huma and Lona so they know Saif will have the information.
III!
HSo sad and terrible. We should ask Chris Hill to raise this w govt. If we ever get Posner confirmed we should emphazise
LGBT human rights.
Are you in Haiti already?
As to the QDDR, I think we should task the Building and AID to contribute. I have some ideas about that which I will talk
to Jack and Jake about.
Let me know how it goes w the trip.Great--thx.The Canadians said they would do transcript of call so pls ask WHA to obtain one for me.How long can a recess appointee serve and can one be reappointed?Pls send me #s for him.OkI want to see him tuesday when he's back.RELEASE IN PART
B6H <HDR22@clintonemail.com>
Saturday May 23 2009 10:58 AM
H2;
memorial service
Dear Strobe, Bill and I would be honored to participate
Hannah Richert
23 10:00:15 2009
memorial serviceI just stopped at and no one was home so I'm headingH <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Friday, November 13, 2009 6:41 AM
'JilotyLC@state.gov', 'Russorv@state.gov'
Fw:
Pis do a congrats letter.It's a public statement! Just email it.Pis print.B6H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Sunday, May 31, 2009 10:05 AM
'JilotyLC@state.gov'
Re: Follow up
Lee--
I'm very pleased this new challenge is working out so well for you and your family. And, until you're in Warsaw, I
would welcome any thoughts you may have about what I should--or shouldn't!--be saying or doing. Pls send anything
you might have for me directly to Lauren Jiloty, whom I have copied on this email. All the best.Clinton Is?-over all it reflects your amazing strength of' Purpose"...keep on Sis and love
RELEASE IN PART
B6
My fax is broken, so I didn't get any clips. I hope to get it fixed today and hope to receive all that I missed.First, Happy New Year to Jen and Stern clan. Hope to talk soon about our way forward for 2010.
I received the following email from Jairem Ramesh over the holidays. I intend to respond in kind but wanted to run by
you for advice.
Thx. HRC---
Dear Madam Secretary of State:
It was wonderful catching up with you in Copenhagen. The opportunity to interact with President Obama and you at the
very last minute to salvage the Copenhagen Accord at the US-BASIC Summit Meeting was fantastic and unforgettable for
me personally. I am still reeling from that historic 75 minutes!!
With greetings for Xmas and best wishes for the New Year,
With warmest regards,
Jairam RameshI can't print email so pis fax. Thx.Do either of you have numbers for her? She's the President of the Mass State Senate and was a big supporter of mine
during the primaries.That is exciting news--do you think you can teach me to use it on the flight to Kyev next week?
Original MessaThx so much for all of your help.Can Kristy come tomorrow?Wow--what a great getaway idea. Are you staying for a few days?I came home early because of the hurricane. Do you know when the box will arrive today?Rob--pis type this out in BIG print for me. Thx.What's her number so I can call?Pis print.Will Eikenberry be there?Richard--
What was your reaction to the PC yesterday? And what's next in process?
Hope you've recovered from our trip! HH <HDR22@clintonemail.com>
Thursday, Se tember 24, 2009 10:05 AM
'cheryl.mills sullivanjj@state.gov'; 'muscatinel@state.gov'
H2
Fw: Un
B6
Overlook the source but idea that I should do a topper on timely events and make case is probably right.Let's just go wOk.How's it going? Call me at home if you want. Thx.There will be an inauguration in Uruguay in Feb or March. Pls find out exact date.
Also I told FM Sikorsky I would attend Community of Democracies mtg in Poland this summer. He said we could pick
date. Do you have any more info?Thx.Pls print for me.Let's wait until next week.Thx Mike. I'd like to meet w you this week. Pls get a time from Lona.What is the state of play? I read the reports about And what do we do 1.4(B)
now? 1.4(D)
B1
on: 04/25/2035As planned....
--What a week!Ok. Can you call me?I cannot do either time. We could send Raj or Jack.Pis print.
H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Monday, February 1, 2010 8:50 AM
'JilotyLC@state.gov'
Re: HaitiFyi and send around as you choose.Ok to go.Pls print.
H <hrod17@clintonemail.com >
Sunday, October 11, 2009 5:03 PM
'JilotyLC@state.gov'
Fw: Thanks so much for the talkI saw it and think it's right on point. I will call and thank Dan.
Where are we on No Ireland?
I think we should also be prepared to enlist someone to respond to John Bolton's attacks.
Also, Holbrooke wants me to call Sashkavilli. Has that 6een vetted in Building?Thx.
H <hrod17@clintonemail.com >
Sunday, October 4, 2009 11:07 AM
'crowleypj@state.gov'; 'preines
Re: Sri LankaPis print.
H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Thursday, June 3, 2010 3:55 PM
'JilotyLC@state.gov.
Fw: Brief memo for Cheryl Mills on Colombia - for Secretary ClintonDear Jim--
I hope you and your family have had time to enjoy the holidays together and that 2010 brings blessings to you all.
Thanks for all your great work, support and advice this past year, and I'm looking forward to the year ahead.
All the best, HillaryH <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Sunday, September 20, 2009 8:15 AM
millscd@state.gov'
When can you talk?
RELEASE IN
PART B6
I know you're seeing Denis. Can you call after?Mitchell's team should review.Are you still up? Can you call?I would also like an updated list of all the FMs, DMs and heads of State w whom I've met.I still have not received the call sheet.Pls be sure Tom Shannon sees the memcon of call. Am I meeting you at the airport?OkAs you know, I will testify on Dec 15 and want to know if that is too late to sound the alarm about our budget? If so,
what should I be doing? If not, we should prepare testimony that we preview and deliver that makes our case. Let me
know your thoughts.Pls print.Have we asked Chinese to let us take helicopter in to retrieve?I need to find a time to meet w the Undersectretaries every week. What do you suggest?Pis print.
..... ....• Tomorrow pis add more State names--all under and asst secretaries and the special assts/exec crew. Thx.Lisa---
I just landed from Cairo and would love to come to lunch and, as of now, I will be in DC. So just let me know time and
place!
I'm copying Lona so she can connect w you since I leave again on Sat for two weeks. This travel gig is never ending--
can't wait for Thanksgiving for a few days off.
Hope you're well, my friend.Who is Michael Turner?Pls add to call list.What's Hussein like?That's great!I caught some of the interview and wondered whether it would cause problems. We have to watch this closely.
Would John get that written somewhere?
I'm in the car on my berry if you need me. Thx.Good. Thx.Correct to reflect Kuwaiti not Qatari FM.Will I receive a full notebook for approps hearings tonight?
I'd like a call this afternoon or evening to go over the draft Af-Pak regional strategy. Who should be on call? It is quite
good but lacks "milestones" and budgets for each section.
Re the required report for Kerry-Lugar, I want to be sure that the language in both our report and this one echo the
same language.
I never called Patricia Espinosa--should I?
Also, have we rec'd a memo from Shaun Woodard for Robinson and McGuinness calls?
There will also be a PC on Af-Pak Tuesday and I want to be sure our report is ready.Do you have a copy of the letter he sent me? I can't find my copy. Thx.Also, I hope you will soon be moving back to the center of the action!Pis print for me.Ok. Thx.I know. S000 sad.Yes.Coming now. Where should I go?Aren't I lucky?Kerry is right that no one else can do this. We should get Ban to convene or do it ourselves. How can we? What do you
think?Would he write a letter we could deliver to her setting all this out?Ok in about ten minutes.When can we talk again? I'll be tied up from 5-6:30.I wouldn't be part of it.Thx. I'll be ready to discuss tomorrow.AMS and Jack----AMS's comments and edits about development are right on target. May I call you on a conference call
this am before 8am to discuss? If so, does 7:30 work for you? Thx. HRCOkPls tell Lona and Huma I will return to State from FSI. Also could Jim and I meet in room w buffet on 8th floor for lunch.image003.jpg
As predicted.H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Friday, February 5, 2010 7:15 AM
'sullivanjj@state.gov'; 'preines ; Huma Abedin B6
Witten statement now?
I'd like to be first w statement on behalf of USG. Can we do asap and then repeat on camera?H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Monday, October 12, 2009 6:42 AM
'sullivanjj@state.gov'
Any feedback?
Pis tell to be sure the Brown letter is delivered asap. The delay may mean Robinson cancels his mtg for tonight. B6Pis send me #s for him. 'Thank you--and pis be sure o see them.When will you be ready to talk schedule?I won't read it until early in the morning so you can work w Jake and White House tonight to be sure we have all
relevant comments and red flags. Thanks so much for all your hard work on this.Ok.I am just taking off. When I land I will call you on your cell. Ok?Pis get #s for Gen. Shelton for me. Thx.I wanted to ask that you check w Eikenberry about the memo I requested from him that was only for me. Did he send it?Pls print.Pls print.Let's try on drives.Fyi.Don't worry--i saw him.Will I get a draft later today?I agree.Sure. I just got home.Let's do tomorrow after MTP. Ok?No. Are you free after 9pm?I'd like to do and probably better on Tuesday. I'll confirm tomorrow. Where do you want to go? I prefer quiet and
private around 6:30-7 if that's ok for you both.Ok.
H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Tuesday, December 8, 2009 7:46 AM
'millscd@state.gov'
Re: Checking inI will have to go into office first. Can I get on the 11 or 12?to Samoa
Great job!I'm on the way home.Thank you! Will your team call people to tell them and explain to the Geneva folks what happened?Ok.Since Davos is now about Haiti, do I need to go? Bill is going.Pls print.Ns print.
H <hrod17@clintonemail.com >
Thursday, November 5, 2009 12:46 AM
'JilotyLC@state.gov'
Fw: FYI: Decline and Fall of the British Empire, 2009 edition. SidAnytime before 11.Pls print.
H <hrod17@clintonemail.com >
Thursday, January 14, 2010 5:54 PM
'JilotyLC@state.gov'
Fw: Good to see youI'd like to see her. Can we work it out?Just tried it but got a request for my mailbox on the system. Is this right #?Hope all is well. Let me know if and when you can talk yonight or tomorrow.H <hrod17@clintonemailcorn>
Friday, June 3, 20111:54 PM
'suIlivanjj@state.gov'
'JilotyLC@state.gov'
Fw: H: New memo: Qs secret bid to UK. Sid
Jake--fyi
Lauren—pls print.Very nice. Can you talk?Jake--
What's your take on the impact of this version?No, 8 is better.Pls print.OkI'm in the restaurant on the first floor. Come see me.Let's discuss at our next mtg.Ok. Also, what about inviting Yohannes (MCC nominee) to come to observe MCC mtg next week, meet people and be
briefed. He may develop his own opinion about who he wants as his deputy. Let's discuss.